tion and of ratification after rejection. “Thus, the political depart-
ments of the Government dealt with the effect of previous rejection
and of attempted withdrawal and determined that both were inef-
fectual in the presence of an actual ratification.”
    Although rescission was hotly debated with respect to the Equal
Rights Amendment, the failure of ratification meant that nothing
definitive emerged from the debate. The questions that must be re-
solved are whether the matter is justiciable, that is, whether under
the political question doctrine resolution of the issue is committed
exclusively to Congress, and whether there is judicial review of what
Congress’s power is in respect to deciding the matter of rescission.
The Fourteenth Amendment precedent and Coleman v. Miller com-
bine to suggest that resolution is a political question committed to
Congress, but the issue is not settled.
    The Twenty-seventh Amendment precedent is relevant here. The
Archivist of the United States proclaimed the Amendment as hav-
ing been ratified a day previous to the time both Houses of Con-
gress adopted resolutions accepting ratification.49 There is no neces-
sary conflict, because the Archivist and Congress concurred in their
actions, but the Office of Legal Counsel of the Department of Jus-
tice opined that the Coleman precedent was not binding and that
the Fourteenth Amendment action by Congress was an “aberra-
tion.” 50 That is, the memorandum argued that the Coleman opin-
ion by Chief Justice Hughes was for only a plurality of the Court
and, moreover, was dictum, as it addressed an issue not before the
Court.51 On the merits, OLC argued that Article V gave Congress
no role other than to propose amendments and to specify the mode
of ratification. An amendment is valid when ratified by three-
fourths of the states, no further action being required. Although some-
one must determine when the requisite number have acted, OLC
argued that the executive officer charged with the function of certi-
fying, now the Archivist, has only the ministerial duty of counting
the notifications sent to him. Separation of powers and federalism
concerns also counseled against a congressional role, and past prac-

York attempted to withdraw its ratification of the 15th Amendment; although the
Secretary of State listed New York among the ratifying states, noted the with-
drawal resolution, there were ratifications from three-fourths of the states without
New York. 16 Stat. 1131.
    49 F. R. Doc. 92–11951, 57 Fed. Reg. 21187; 138 CONG. REC. (daily ed.) S6948–49,

H3505–06.
    50 16 Ops. of the Office of Legal Coun. 102, 125 (1992) (prelim. pr.).
    51 Id. at 118–121.
