text of amending the Constitution, may be what Chief Justice Hughes
was deciding for the plurality of the Court in Coleman.54
    Article V may be read to contain a governing constitutional prin-
ciple, however. Thus, it can be argued that, as written, the provi-
sion contains only language respecting ratification and that, inexo-
rably, once a state acts favorably on a resolution of ratification it
has exhausted its jurisdiction over the subject and cannot re-
scind,55 nor can Congress even authorize a state to rescind.56 This
conclusion is premised on Madison’s argument that a state may not
ratify conditionally, that it must adopt “in toto and for ever.” 57 Al-
though the Madison principle may be unexceptionable in the con-
text in which it was stated, one may doubt that it transfers readily
to the significantly different issue of rescission.
    A more pertinent principle seems to be that expressed in Dil-
lon v. Gloss.58 In that case, the action of Congress in fixing a seven-
year period within which ratification was to occur or the proposal
would expire was attacked as vitiating the amendment. The Court,
finding no express provision in Article V, nonetheless concluded that
the fair implication of Article V is “that the ratification must be

     54 Coleman v. Miller, 307 U.S. 433, 450, 453 (1939) (plurality opinion). Thus,

considering the question of ratification after rejection, the Chief Justice found “no
basis in either Constitution or statute” to warrant the judiciary in restraining state
officers from notifying Congress of a state’s ratification, so that it could decide to
accept or reject. “Article 5, speaking solely of ratification, contains no provision as
to rejection.” And in considering whether the Court could specify a reasonable time
for an amendment to be before the state before it lost its validity as a proposal,
Chief Justice Hughes asked: “Where are to be found the criteria for such a judicial
determination? None are to be found in Constitution or statute.” His discussion of
what Congress could look to in fixing a reasonable time, id. at 453–54, is overwhelm-
ingly policy-oriented. On this approach generally, see Henkin, Is There a ‘Political
Question’ Doctrine?, 85 YALE L.J. 597 (1976).
     55 See, e.g., the debate between Senator Conkling and Senator Davis on this point

in 89 CONG. GLOBE 1477–1481 (1870).
     56 Constitutionality of Extending the Time Period for Ratification of the Pro-

posed Equal Rights Amendment, Memorandum of the Assistant Attorney General,
Office of Legal Counsel, Department of Justice, in Equal Rights Amendment Exten-
sion: Hearings Before the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, 95th
Congress, 2d sess. (1978), 80, 91–99.
     57 During the debate in New York on ratification of the Constitution, it was sug-

gested that the state approve the document on condition that certain amendments
the delegates thought necessary be adopted. Madison wrote: “The Constitution re-
quires an adoption in toto and for ever. It has been so adopted by the other states.
An adoption for a limited time would be as defective as an adoption of some of the
articles only. In short any condition whatever must vitiate the ratification.” 5 THE
PAPERS OF ALEXANDER HAMILTON 184 (H. Syrett ed., 1962).
     58 256 U.S. 368 (1921). Of course, we recognize, as indicated at various points

above, that Dillon, and Coleman as well, insofar as they discuss points relied on
here, express dictum and are not binding precedent. They are discussed solely for
the persuasiveness of the views set out.
