tice, in which all but the Fourteenth Amendment were certified by
an executive officer, was noted as supporting a decision against a
congressional role.52
     What would be the result of adopting one view over the other?
     First, finding that resolution of the question is committed to Con-
gress merely locates the situs of the power and says nothing about
what the resolution should be. That Congress in the past has re-
fused to accept rescissions is but the starting point, because, un-
like courts, Congress operates under no principle of stare decisis so
that the decisions of one Congress on a subject do not bind future
Congresses. If Congress were to be faced with a decision about the
validity of rescission, to what standards should it look?
     That a question of constitutional interpretation may be “politi-
cal” in the sense of being committed to one or to both of the “politi-
cal” branches is not, of course, a judgment that in its resolution
the political branch may decide without recourse to principle. Reso-
lution of political questions is not subject to judicial review, so the
decisionmaker need not be troubled with the prospect of being over-
ruled. But both legislators and executive are bound by oath to ob-
serve the Constitution,53 and consequently the search for an an-
swer must begin with the original document.
     It may be, however, that the Constitution does not speak to the
issue. Generally, in the exercise of judicial review, courts view the
actions of the legislative and executive branches in terms not of the
wisdom or desirability or propriety of their actions but in terms of
the comportment of those actions with the constitutional grants of
power and constraints upon those powers; if an action is within a
granted power and violates no restriction, the courts will not inter-
fere. How the legislature or the executive decides to deal with a
question within the confines of the powers each constitutionally have
is beyond judicial control.
     Therefore, if the Constitution commits decision on an issue to,
say, Congress, and imposes no standards to govern or control the
reaching of that decision, Congress may be free to make a determi-
nation solely as a policy matter, restrained only by its sense of pro-
priety or wisdom or desirability. The reason that these issues are
not justiciable is not only that they are committed to a branch for
decision without intervention by the courts but also that the Con-
stitution does not contain an answer. This interpretation, in the con-
    52 Id. at 121–126.
    53 Article VI, para. 3. “In the performance of assigned constitutional duties each
branch of the government must initially interpret the Constitution, and the interpre-
tation of its powers by any branch is due great respect from the others.” United
States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. 683, 703 (1974).
