fied, it could thereafter withdraw or rescind its ratification, preclud-
ing Congress from counting that state toward completion of ratifi-
cation. Four states had rescinded their ratifications and a fifth had
declared that its ratification would be void unless the amendment
was ratified within the original time limit.43 The issue was not with-
out its history. The Fourteenth Amendment was ratified by the leg-
islatures of Ohio and New Jersey, both of which subsequently passed
rescinding resolutions. Contemporaneously, the legislatures of Geor-
gia, North Carolina, and South Carolina rejected ratification reso-
lutions. Pursuant to the Act of March 2, 1867,44 the governments
of those states were reconstituted and the new legislatures ratified.
Thus, there were presented both the question of the validity of a
withdrawal and the question of the validity of a ratification follow-
ing rejection. Congress requested the Secretary of State 45 to report
on the number of states ratifying the proposal, and the Secretary’s
response specifically noted the actions of the Ohio and New Jersey
legislatures. The Secretary then issued a proclamation reciting that
29 states, including the two that had rescinded and the three which
had ratified after first rejecting, had ratified, which was one more
than the necessary three-fourths. He noted the attempted with-
drawal of Ohio and New Jersey and observed that it was doubtful
whether such attempts were effectual in withdrawing consent.46 He
therefore certified the amendment to be in force if the rescissions
by Ohio and New Jersey were invalid. The next day Congress ad-
opted a resolution listing all 29 states, including Ohio and New Jer-
sey, as having ratified and concluded that the ratification process
was completed.47 The Secretary of State then proclaimed the Amend-
ment as part of the Constitution.
    In Coleman v. Miller,48 the congressional action was inter-
preted as going directly to the merits of withdrawal after ratifica-

    43 Nebraska (March 15, 1973), Tennessee (April 23, 1974), and Idaho (February

8, 1977) all passed rescission resolutions without dispute about the actual passage.
The Kentucky rescission was attached to another bill and was vetoed by the Lieu-
tenant Governor, acting as Governor, citing grounds that included a state constitu-
tional provision prohibiting the legislature from passing a law dealing with more
than one subject and a senate rule prohibiting the introduction of new bills within
the last ten days of a session. Both the resolution and the veto message were sent
by the Kentucky Secretary of State to the General Services Administration. South
Dakota was the fifth state.
    44 14 Stat. 428.
    45 The Secretary was then responsible for receiving notices of ratification and

proclaiming adoption.
    46 15 Stat. 706, 707.
    47 15 Stat. 709.
    48 307 U.S. 433, 488–50 (1939) (plurality opinion). For an alternative construc-

tion of the precedent, see Corwin & Ramsey, The Constitutional Law of Constitu-
tional Amendment, 27 NOTRE DAME LAW. 185, 201–204 (1951). The legislature of New
