     Nothing in the status of the precedent created by the Twenty-
seventh Amendment suggests that Congress may not, when it pro-
poses an amendment, include a time limitation either in the text
or in the accompanying resolution, simply as an exercise of its nec-
essary and proper power.
     Whether Congress may extend a ratification period without ne-
cessitating new action by states that have already ratified em-
broiled Congress, the states, and the courts in argument with re-
spect to the proposed Equal Rights Amendment.40 Proponents argued
and opponents doubted that the fixing of a time limit and the ex-
tending of it were powers committed exclusively to Congress under
the political question doctrine and that in any event Congress had
power to extend. It was argued that inasmuch as the fixing of a
reasonable time was within Congress’s power and that Congress could
fix the time either in advance or at some later point, based upon
its evaluation of the social and other bases of the necessities of the
amendment, Congress did not do violence to the Constitution when,
once having fixed the time, it subsequently extended the time. Pro-
ponents recognized that if the time limit was fixed in the text of
the amendment Congress could not alter it because the time limit
as well as the substantive provisions of the proposal had been sub-
ject to ratification by a number of states, making it unalterable by
Congress except through the amending process again. Opponents
argued that Congress, having by a two-thirds vote sent the amend-
ment and its authorizing resolution to the states, had put the mat-
ter beyond changing by passage of a simple resolution, that states
had either acted upon the entire package or at least that they had
or could have acted affirmatively upon the promise of Congress that
if the amendment had not been ratified within the prescribed pe-
riod it would expire and their assent would not be compelled for
longer than they had intended. Congress did pass a resolution ex-
tending by three years the period for ratification.41
     Litigation followed and a federal district court, finding the is-
sue to be justiciable, held that Congress did not have the power to
extend, but before the Supreme Court could review the decision the
extended time period expired and mooted the matter.42
     Also much disputed during consideration of the proposed Equal
Rights Amendment was the question whether, once a state had rati-
    40 See Equal Rights Amendment Extension: Hearings Before the Senate Judi-

ciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, 95th Congress, 2d Sess. (1978); Equal Rights
Amendment Extension: Hearings Before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Civil
and Constitutional Rights, 95th Congress, 1st/2d Sess. (1977–78).
    41 H.J. Res. 638, 95th Congress, 2d Sess. (1978); 92 Stat. 3799.
    42 Idaho v. Freeman, 529 F. Supp. 1107 (D. Idaho, 1981), prob. juris. noted, 455

U.S. 918 (1982), vacated and remanded to dismiss, 459 U.S. 809 (1982).
