                        MODE OF AMENDMENT


                                  ARTICLE V
     The Congress, whenever two thirds of both Houses shall deem
it necessary, shall propose Amendments to this Constitution, or,
on the Application of the Legislatures of two thirds of the sev-
eral States, shall call a Convention for proposing Amendments,
which in either Case, shall be valid to all Intents and Purposes,
as Part of this Constitution, when ratified by the Legislatures
of three fourths of the several States or by Conventions in three
fourths thereof, as the one or the other Mode of Ratification may
be proposed by the Congress; Provided that no Amendment which
may be made prior to the Year One thousand eight hundred and
eight shall in any Manner affect the first and fourth Clauses in
the Ninth Section of the first Article; and that no State, with-
out its Consent, shall be deprived of its equal Suffrage in the
Senate.
                      AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION

       Scope of the Amending Power
           When Article V was before the Constitutional Convention, a mo-
       tion to insert a provision that “no State shall without its consent
       be affected in its internal policy” was made and rejected.1 A further
       attempt to impose a substantive limitation on the amending power
       was made in 1861, when Congress submitted to the states a pro-
       posal to bar any future amendments which would authorize Con-
       gress to “interfere, within any State, with the domestic institutions
       thereof . . . .” 2 Three states ratified this article before the out-
       break of the Civil War made it academic.3 Members of Congress
       opposed passage by Congress of the Thirteenth Amendment on the
           1 2 M. FARRAND, THE RECORDS OF THE FEDERAL CONVENTION OF 1787 630 (rev. ed. 1937).
           2 57 CONG. GLOBE 1263 (1861).
           3 H. Ames, The Proposed Amendments to the Constitution of the United States

       During the First Century of Its History, H. DOC. 353, pt. 2, 54th Congress, 2d Sess.
       (1897), 363.
