and some thought that Congress would be the first to perceive the
need for amendment and that to leave the matter to the discretion
of the states would mean that no alterations but those increasing
the powers of the states would ever be proposed.12 Madison’s pro-
posal was adopted, empowering Congress to propose amendments
either on its own initiative or upon application by the legislatures
of two-thirds of the states.13 When this provision came back from
the Committee on Style, however, Gouverneur Morris and Gerry suc-
ceeded in inserting the language providing for a convention upon
the application of the legislatures of two-thirds of the states.14
     Proposals by Congress.—Few difficulties of a constitutional na-
ture have arisen with regard to this method of initiating constitu-
tional change, the only method, as we noted above, so far success-
fully resorted to. When Madison submitted to the House of
Representatives the proposals from which the Bill of Rights evolved,
he contemplated that they should be incorporated in the text of the
original instrument.15 Instead, the House decided to propose them
as supplementary articles, a method followed since.16 It ignored a
suggestion that the two Houses should first resolve that amend-
ments are necessary before considering specific proposals.17 In the
National Prohibition Cases,18 the Court ruled that, in proposing an
amendment, the two Houses of Congress thereby indicated that they
deemed revision necessary. The same case also established the propo-
sition that the vote required to propose an amendment was a vote
of two thirds of the Members present—assuming the presence of a
quorum—and not a vote of two-thirds of the entire membership.19
The approval of the President is not necessary for a proposed amend-
ment.20

    12  Id. at 558 (Hamilton).
    13  Id. at 559
     14 Id. at 629–630. “Mr. Madison did not see why Congress would not be as much

bound to propose amendments applied for by two-thirds of the state as to call a
Convention on the like application. He saw no objection however against providing
for a Convention for the purpose of amendments, except only that difficulties might
arise as to the form, the quorum etc. which in Constitutional regulations ought to
be as much as possible avoided.”
     15 1 ANNALS OF CONGRESS 433–436 (1789).
     16 Id. at 717.
     17 Id. at 430.
     18 253 U.S. 350, 386 (1920).
     19 253 U.S. at 386.
     20 In Hollingsworth v. Virginia, 3 U.S. (3 Dall.) 378 (1798), the Court rejected a

challenge to the Eleventh Amendment based on the argument that it had not been
submitted to the President for approval or veto. The Court’ s brief opinion merely
determined that the Eleventh Amendment was “constitutionally adopted.” Id. at 382.
Apparently during oral argument, Justice Chase opined that “[t]he negative of the
President applies only to the ordinary cases of legislation: He has nothing to do with
the proposition, or adoption, of amendments to the Constitution.” Id. at 381. See
