ject matter, the effective date of congressional pay raises, the adop-
tion of this provision has unsettled much of the supposed learning
on the issue of the timeliness of pendency of constitutional amend-
ments.
     It has been accepted that Congress may, in proposing an amend-
ment, set a reasonable time limit for its ratification. Beginning with
the Eighteenth Amendment, save for the Nineteenth, Congress has
included language in all proposals stating that the amendment should
be inoperative unless ratified within seven years.26 All the earlier
proposals had been silent on the question, and two amendments pro-
posed in 1789, one submitted in 1810 and another in 1861, and most
recently one in 1924 had gone to the states and had not been rati-
fied. In Coleman v. Miller,27 the Court refused to pass upon the ques-
tion whether the proposed child labor amendment, the one submit-
ted to the states in 1924, was open to ratification thirteen years
later. This it held to be a political question that Congress would
have to resolve in the event three-fourths of the states ever gave
their assent to the proposal.
    In Dillon v. Gloss,28 the Court upheld Congress’s power to pre-
scribe time limitations for state ratifications and intimated that pro-
posals that were clearly out of date were no longer open for ratifi-
cation. Finding nothing express in Article V relating to time
constraints, the Court nevertheless found evidence that strongly sug-
gests that proposed amendments are not open to ratification for all
time or by states acting at widely separate times.29
     Three related considerations were put forward. “First, proposal
and ratification are not treated as unrelated acts but as succeeding
steps in a single endeavor, the natural inference being that they
are not to be widely separated in time. Secondly, it is only when
there is deemed to be a necessity therefor that amendments are to
be proposed, the reasonable implication being that when proposed
they are to be considered and disposed of presently. Thirdly, as rati-
fication is but the expression of the approbation of the people and
is to be effective when had in three-fourths of the States, there is a
fair implication that it must be sufficiently contemporaneous in that
     26 Seven-year periods were included in the texts of the proposals of the 18th,

20th, 21st, and 22d amendments. Apparently concluding in proposing the 23d that
putting the time limit in the text merely cluttered up the amendment, Congress in
it and in subsequent amendments included the time limits in the authorizing reso-
lution. After the extension debate over the Equal Rights proposal, Congress once
again inserted into the text of the amendment the time limit with respect to the
proposal of voting representation in Congress for the District of Columbia.
     27 307 U.S. 433 (1939).
     28 256 U.S. 368 (1921).
     29 256 U.S. at 374.
