number of States to reflect the will of the people in all sections at
relatively the same period, which of course ratification scattered
through a long series of years would not do.” 30
    Continuing, the Court observed that this conclusion was the far
better one, because the consequence of the opposite view was that
the four amendments proposed long before, including the two sent
out to the states in 1789 “are still pending and in a situation where
their ratification in some of the States many years since by repre-
sentatives of generations now largely forgotten may be effectively
supplemented in enough more States to make three-fourths by rep-
resentatives of the present or some future generation. To that view
few would be able to subscribe, and in our opinion it is quite unten-
able.” 31
    What seemed “untenable” to a unanimous Court in 1921 proved
quite acceptable to both executive and congressional branches in 1992.
After a campaign calling for the resurrection of the 1789 proposal,
which was originally transmitted to the states as one of the twelve
original amendments, enough additional states ratified to make up
a three-fourths majority, and the responsible executive official pro-
claimed the amendment as ratified as both Houses of Congress con-
curred in resolutions.32
    That there existed a “reasonable” time limit for ratification was
strongly controverted.33 The Office of Legal Counsel of the Depart-
ment of Justice prepared for the White House counsel an elaborate
memorandum that disputed all aspects of the Dillon opinion.34 First,
Dillon’s discussion of contemporaneity was discounted as dictum.35
Second, the three “considerations” relied on in Dillon were deemed
unpersuasive. Thus, the Court simply assumes that, because pro-
    30  256 U.S. at 374–75.
    31  256 U.S. at 375. One must observe that all the quoted language is dicta, the
actual issue in Dillon being whether Congress could include a time limit in the text
of a proposed amendment. In Coleman v. Miller, 307 U.S. 433, 453–54 (1939), Chief
Justice Hughes, for a plurality, accepted the Dillon dictum, despite his opinion’s force-
ful argument for judicial abstinence on constitutional amendment issues. The other
four Justices in the Court majority thought Congress had complete and sole control
over the amending process, subject to no judicial review. Id. at 459.
     32 Supra, “Congressional Pay”; infra, “Twenty-Seventh Amendment.”
     33 Thus, Professor Tribe wrote: “Article V says an amendment ‘shall be valid to

all Intents and Purposes, as part of this Constitution’ when ‘ratified’ by three-
fourths of the states—not that it might face a veto for tardiness. Despite the Su-
preme Court’s suggestion, no speedy ratification rule may be extracted from Article
V’s text, structure or history.” Laurence H. Tribe, The 27th Amendment Joins the
Constitution, WALL STREET JOURNAL, May 13, 1992, A15.
     34 16 Ops. of the Office of Legal Coun. 102 (1992) (prelim. pr.).
     35 Id. at 109–110. Coleman’s endorsement of the dictum in the Hughes opinion

was similarly pronounced dictum. Id. at 110. Both characterizations, as noted above,
are correct.
