posal and ratification are steps in a single process, the process must
be short rather than lengthy; the argument that an amendment should
reflect necessity says nothing about the length of time available, in
that the more recent ratifying states obviously thought the pay amend-
ment was necessary; and the fact that an amendment must reflect
consensus does not so much as intimate contemporaneous consen-
sus.36 Third, the OLC memorandum argued that the proper mode
of interpretation of Article V was to “provide a clear rule that is
capable of mechanical application, without any need to inquire into
the timeliness or substantive validity of the consensus achieved by
means of the ratification process. Accordingly, any interpretation that
would introduce confusion must be disfavored.” 37 The rule ought to
be, echoing Professor Tribe, that an amendment is ratified when
three-fourths of the states have approved it.38 The memorandum
vigorously pursues a “plain-meaning” rule of constitutional construc-
tion. Article V says nothing about time limits, and elsewhere in the
Constitution when the Framers wanted to include time limits they
did so. The absence of any time language means there is no require-
ment of contemporaneity or of a “reasonable” period.39
    Now that the Amendment has been proclaimed and has been
accepted by Congress, where does this development leave the argu-
ment over the validity of proposals long distant in time? One may
assume that this precedent stands for the proposition that propos-
als remain viable forever. It may, on the one hand, stand for the
proposition that certain proposals, because they reflect concerns that
are as relevant today, or perhaps in some future time, as at the
time of transmission to the states, remain open to ratification. Cer-
tainly, the public concern with congressional pay made the Twenty-
seventh Amendment particularly pertinent. The other 1789 pro-
posal, relating to the number of representatives, might remain viable
under this standard, whereas the other proposals would not. On the
other hand, it is possible to argue that the precedent is an “aberra-
tion,” that its acceptance owed more to a political and philosophi-
cal argument between executive and legislative branches and to the
defensive posture of Congress in the political context of 1992 that
led to an uncritical acceptance of the Amendment. In that latter
light, the development is relevant to but not dispositive of the con-
troversy. And, barring some judicial interpretation, that is likely to
be where the situation rests.

    36Id. at 111–112.
    37Id. at 113.
   38 Id. at 113–116.
   39 Id. at 103–106. The OLC also referenced previous debates in Congress in which

Members had assumed this proposal and the others remained viable. Id.
