    AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION


                       BILL OF RIGHTS
                First Through Tenth Amendments
     On September 12, five days before the Convention adjourned,
Mason and Gerry raised the question of adding a bill of rights to
the Constitution. Mason said: “It would give great quiet to the people;
and with the aid of the State declarations, a bill might be prepared
in a few hours.” But the motion of Gerry and Mason to appoint a
committee for the purpose of drafting a bill of rights was rejected.1
Again, on September 14, Pinckney and Gerry sought to add a pro-
vision “that the liberty of the Press should be inviolably ob-
served—.” But after Sherman observed that such a declaration was
unnecessary, because “[t]he power of Congress does not extend to
the Press,” this suggestion too was rejected.2 It cannot be known
accurately why the Convention opposed these suggestions. Perhaps
the lateness of the Convention, perhaps the desire not to present
more opportunity for controversy when the document was for-
warded to the states, perhaps the belief, asserted by the defenders
of the Constitution when the absence of a bill of rights became criti-
cal, that no bill was needed because Congress was delegated none
of the powers which such a declaration would deny, perhaps all these
contributed to the rejection.3
     In any event, the opponents of ratification soon made the ab-
sence of a bill of rights a major argument,4 and some friends of the
document, such as Jefferson,5 strongly urged amendment to in-
     1 2 M. FARRAND, THE RECORDS OF THE FEDERAL CONVENTION OF 1787 587–88 (rev. ed.

1937).
     2 Id. at 617–618.
     3 The argument most used by proponents of the Constitution was that inas-

much as Congress was delegated no power to do those things which a bill of rights
would proscribe no bill of rights was necessary and that it might be dangerous be-
cause it would contain exceptions to powers not granted and might therefore afford
a basis for claiming more than was granted. THE FEDERALIST No. 84 at 555–67 (Alex-
ander Hamilton) (Modern Library ed. 1937).
     4 Substantial excerpts from the debate in the country and in the ratifying con-

ventions are set out in 1 THE BILL OF RIGHTS: A DOCUMENTARY HISTORY 435–620 (B. Schwartz
ed., 1971); 2 id. at 627–980. The earlier portions of volume 1 trace the origins of the
various guarantees back to the Magna Carta.
     5 In a letter to Madison, Jefferson indicated what he did not like about the pro-

posed Constitution. “First the omission of a bill of rights providing clearly and with-
out the aid of sophisms for freedom of religion, freedom of the press, protection against
standing armies, restriction against monopolies, the eternal and unremitting force
of the habeas corpus laws, and trials by jury in all matters of the fact triable by the
laws of the land and not by the law of Nations. . . . Let me add that a bill of rights
