clude a declaration of rights.6 Several state conventions ratified while
urging that the new Congress to be convened propose such amend-
ments, 124 amendments in all being put forward by these states.7
Although some dispute has occurred with regard to the obligation
of the first Congress to propose amendments, Madison at least had
no doubts 8 and introduced a series of proposals,9 which he had dif-
ficulty claiming the interest of the rest of Congress in considering.
At length, the House of Representatives adopted 17 proposals; the

is what the people are entitled to against every government on earth, general or
particular, and what no just government should refuse, or rest on inference.” 12 THE
PAPERS OF THOMAS JEFFERSON 438, 440 (J. Boyd ed., 1958). He suggested that nine States
should ratify and four withhold ratification until amendments adding a bill of rights
were adopted. Id. at 557, 570, 583. Jefferson still later endorsed the plan put for-
ward by Massachusetts to ratify and propose amendments. 14 id. at 649.
     6 Thus, George Washington observed in letters that a ratified Constitution could

be amended but that making such amendments conditions for ratification was ill-
advised. 11 THE WRITINGS OF GEORGE WASHINGTON 249 (W. Ford ed., 1891).
     7 2 THE BILL OF RIGHTS: A DOCUMENTARY HISTORY 627–980 (B. Schwartz ed., 1971).

See also H. AMES, THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION 19 (1896).
     8 Madison began as a doubter, writing Jefferson that while “[m]y own opinion

has always been in favor of a bill of rights,” still “I have never thought the omission
a material defect, nor been anxious to supply it even by subsequent amend-
ment. . . .” 5 THE WRITINGS OF JAMES MADISON 269 (G. Hunt ed., 1904). His reasons
were four. (1) The Federal Government was not granted the powers to do what a
bill of rights would proscribe. (2) There was reason “to fear that a positive declara-
tion of some of the most essential rights could not be obtained in the requisite lati-
tude. I am sure that the rights of conscience in particular, if submitted to public
definition would be narrowed much more than they are likely ever to be by an as-
sumed power.” (3) A greater security was afforded by the jealousy of the States of
the national government. (4) “[E]xperience proves the inefficacy of a bill of rights on
those occasions when its controul is most needed. Repeated violations of these parch-
ment barriers have been committed by overbearing majorities in every State. . . .
Wherever the real power in a Government lies, there is the danger of oppression. In
our Governments the real power lies in the majority of the Community, and the
invasion of private rights is chiefly to be apprehended, not from acts of Government
contrary to the sense of its constituents, but from acts in which the government is
the mere instrument of the major number of the Constituents. . . . Wherever there
is a interest and power to do wrong, wrong will generally be done, and not less read-
ily by a powerful & interested party than by a powerful and interested prince.” Id.
at 272–73. Jefferson’s response acknowledged the potency of Madison’s reservations
and attempted to answer them, in the course of which he called Madison’s attention
to an argument in favor not considered by Madison “which has great weight with
me, the legal check which it puts into the hands of the judiciary. This is a body,
which if rendered independent, and kept strictly to their own department merits
great confidence for their learning and integrity.” 14 THE PAPERS OF THOMAS JEFFERSON
659 (J. Boyd ed., 1958). Madison was to assert this point when he introduced his
proposals for a bill of rights in the House of Representatives. 1 ANNALS OF CONGRESS
439 (June 8, 1789).
     In any event, following ratification, Madison in his successful campaign for a
seat in the House firmly endorsed the proposal of a bill of rights. “[I]t is my sincere
opinion that the Constitution ought to be revised, and that the first Congress meet-
ing under it ought to prepare and recommend to the States for ratification, the most
satisfactory provisions for all essential rights, particularly the rights of Conscience
in the fullest latitude, the freedom of the press, trials by jury, security against gen-
eral warrants & c.” 5 THE WRITINGS OF JAMES MADISON 319 (G. Hunt ed., 1904).
