    Later in the same term the Court ruled that the Mendenhall
“free-to-leave” inquiry was misplaced in the context of a police sweep
of a bus, but that a modified reasonable perception approach still
governed.224 In conducting a bus sweep, aimed at detecting illegal
drugs and their couriers, police officers typically board a bus dur-
ing a stopover at a terminal and ask to inspect tickets, identifica-
tion, and sometimes luggage of selected passengers. The Court did
not focus on whether an “arrest” had taken place, as adherence to
the Hodari D. approach would have required, but instead sug-
gested that the appropriate inquiry is “whether a reasonable per-
son would feel free to decline the officers’ requests or otherwise ter-
minate the encounter.” 225 “When the person is seated on a bus and
has no desire to leave,” the Court explained, “the degree to which a
reasonable person would feel that he or she could leave is not an
accurate measure of the coercive effect of the encounter.” 226
     A Terry search need not be limited to a stop and frisk of the
person, but may extend as well to a protective search of the passen-
ger compartment of a car if an officer possesses “a reasonable be-
lief, based on specific and articulable facts . . . that the suspect is
dangerous and . . . may gain immediate control of weapons.” 227 How
lengthy a Terry detention may be varies with the circumstances. In
approving a 20-minute detention of a driver made necessary by the
driver’s own evasion of drug agents and a state police decision to
hold the driver until the agents could arrive on the scene, the Court
indicated that it is “appropriate to examine whether the police dili-




    224  Florida v. Bostick, 501 U.S. 429 (1991).
    225  501 U.S. at 436.
     226 501 U.S. at 436. The Court asserted that the case was “analytically indistin-

guishable from Delgado. Like the workers in that case [subjected to the INS ‘sur-
vey’ at their workplace], Bostick’s freedom of movement was restricted by a factor
independent of police conduct—i.e., by his being a passenger on a bus.” Id. See also
United States v. Drayton, 536 U.S. 194 (2002), applying Bostick to uphold a bus
search in which one officer stationed himself in the front of the bus and one in the
rear, while a third officer worked his way from rear to front, questioning passengers
individually. Under these circumstances, and following the arrest of his traveling
companion, the defendant had consented to the search of his person.
     227 Michigan v. Long, 463 U.S. 1032 (1983) (suspect appeared to be under the

influence of drugs, officer spied hunting knife exposed on floor of front seat and searched
remainder of passenger compartment). Similar reasoning has been applied to up-
hold a “protective sweep” of a home in which an arrest is made if arresting officers
have a reasonable belief that the area swept may harbor another individual posing
a danger to the officers or to others. Maryland v. Buie, 494 U.S. 325 (1990).
