well be endangered, and the arrest itself frustrated. In addition, it
is entirely reasonable for the arresting officer to search for and seize
any evidence on the arrestee’s person in order to prevent its conceal-
ment or destruction. And the area into which an arrestee might reach
in order to grab a weapon or evidentiary items must, of course, be
governed by a like rule. A gun on a table or in a drawer in front of
someone who is arrested can be as dangerous to the arresting offi-
cer as one concealed in the clothing of the person arrested. There
is ample justification, therefore, for a search of the arrestee’s per-
son and the area ‘within his immediate control’—construing that
phrase to mean the area from within which he might gain posses-
sion of a weapon or destructible evidence.”
    “There is no comparable justification, however, for routinely search-
ing any room other than that in which an arrest occurs—or, for that
matter, for searching through all the desk drawers or other closed
or concealed areas in that room itself. Such searches, in the ab-
sence of well-recognized exceptions, may be made only under the
authority of a search warrant.” 246
    Although the viability of Chimel had been in doubt for some
time as the Court refined and applied its analysis of reasonable and
justifiable expectations of privacy,247 it has in some but not all con-
texts survived the changed rationale. Thus, in Mincey v. Ari-
zona,248 the Court rejected a state effort to create a “homicide-
scene” exception for a warrantless search of an entire apartment
extending over four days. The occupant had been arrested and re-
moved and it was true, the Court observed, that a person legally
taken into custody has a lessened right of privacy in his person,
but he does not have a lessened right of privacy in his entire house.
And, in United States v. Chadwick,249 emphasizing a person’s rea-
sonable expectation of privacy in his luggage or other baggage, the
Court held that, once police have arrested and immobilized a sus-
pect, validly seized bags are not subject to search without a war-
rant.250 Police may, however, in the course of jailing an arrested sus-
    246 395 U.S. at 762–63.
    247 See, e.g., Coolidge v. New Hampshire, 403 U.S. 443, 492, 493, 510 (1971), in
which the four dissenters advocated the reasonableness argument rejected in Chimel.
    248 437 U.S. 385, 390–91 (1978). Accord, Flippo v. West Virginia, 528 U.S. 11

(1999) (per curiam).
    249 433 U.S. 1 (1977). Defendant and his luggage, a footlocker, had been re-

moved to the police station, where the search took place.
    250 If, on the other hand, a sealed shipping container had already been opened

and resealed during a valid customs inspection, and officers had maintained surveil-
lance through a “controlled delivery” to the suspect, there is no reasonable expecta-
tion of privacy in the contents of the container and officers may search it, upon the
arrest of the suspect, without having obtained a warrant. Illinois v. Andreas, 463
U.S. 765 (1983).
