producing it.417 Boyd was closely limited to its facts and an exclu-
sionary rule based on Fourth Amendment violations was rejected
by the Court a few years later, with the Justices adhering to the
common-law rule that evidence was admissible however ac-
quired.418
     Nevertheless, ten years later the common-law view was itself
rejected and an exclusionary rule propounded in Weeks v. United
States.419 Weeks had been convicted on the basis of evidence seized
from his home in the course of two warrantless searches; some of
the evidence consisted of private papers such as those sought to be
compelled in Boyd. Unanimously, the Court held that the evidence
should have been excluded by the trial court. The Fourth Amend-
ment, Justice Day said, placed on the courts as well as on law en-
forcement officers restraints on the exercise of power compatible with
its guarantees. “The tendency of those who execute the criminal laws
of the country to obtain convictions by means of unlawful searches
and enforced confessions . . . should find no sanction in the judg-
ments of the courts which are charged at all times with the sup-
port of the Constitution and to which people of all conditions have
a right to appeal for the maintenance of such fundamental rights.” 420
The basis of the ruling is ambiguous, but seems to have been an
assumption that admission of illegally seized evidence would itself
violate the Fourth Amendment. “If letters and private documents
can thus be seized and held and used in evidence against a citizen
accused of an offense, the protection of the Fourth Amendment de-
     417 “We have already noticed the intimate relation between the two Amend-

ments. They throw great light on each other. For the ‘unreasonable searches and
seizures’ condemned in the Fourth Amendment are almost always made for the pur-
pose of compelling a man to give evidence against himself, which in criminal cases
is condemned in the Fifth Amendment; and compelling a man in a criminal case to
be a witness against himself, which is condemned in the Fifth Amendment, throws
light on the question as to what is an ‘unreasonable search and seizure’ within the
meaning of the Fourth Amendment. And we have been unable to perceive that the
seizure of a man’s private books and papers to be used in evidence against him is
substantially different from compelling him to be a witness against himself. We think
it is within the clear intent and meaning of those terms.” 116 U.S. at 633. It was
this use of the Fifth Amendment’s clearly required exclusionary rule, rather than
one implied from the Fourth, on which Justice Black relied, and, absent a Fifth Amend-
ment self-incrimination violation, he did not apply such a rule. Mapp v. Ohio, 367
U.S. 643, 661 (1961) (concurring opinion); Coolidge v. New Hampshire, 403 U.S. 443,
493, 496–500 (1971) (dissenting opinion). The theory of a “convergence” of the two
Amendments has now been disavowed by the Court. See discussion, supra, under
“Property Subject to Seizure.”
     418 Adams v. New York, 192 U.S. 585 (1904). Since the case arose from a state

court and concerned a search by state officers, it could have been decided simply by
holding that the Fourth Amendment was inapplicable. See National Safe Deposit
Co. v. Stead, 232 U.S. 58, 71 (1914).
     419 232 U.S. 383 (1914).
     420 232 U.S. at 392.
