in several cases. Although involving a warrantless arrest, Draper
v. United States 119 may be said to have begun the line of cases. A
previously reliable, named informant reported to an officer that the
defendant would arrive with narcotics on a particular train, and
described the clothes he would be wearing and the bag he would be
carrying; the informant, however, gave no basis for his informa-
tion. FBI agents met the train, observed that the defendant fully
fit the description, and arrested him. The Court held that the cor-
roboration of part of the informer’s tip established probable cause
to support the arrest. A case involving a search warrant, Jones v.
United States,120 apparently considered the affidavit as a whole to
see whether the tip plus the corroborating information provided a
substantial basis for finding probable cause, but the affidavit also
set forth the reliability of the informer and sufficient detail to indi-
cate that the tip was based on the informant’s personal observa-
tion. Aguilar v. Texas 121 held insufficient an affidavit that merely
asserted that the police had “reliable information from a credible
person” that narcotics were in a certain place, and held that when
the affiant relies on an informant’s tip he must present two types
of evidence to the magistrate. First, the affidavit must indicate the
informant’s basis of knowledge—the circumstances from which the
informant concluded that evidence was present or that crimes had
been committed—and, second, the affiant must present information
that would permit the magistrate to decide whether or not the in-
formant was trustworthy. Then, in Spinelli v. United States,122 the
Court applied Aguilar in a situation in which the affidavit con-
tained both an informant’s tip and police information of a corrobo-
rating nature.
     The Court rejected the “totality” test derived from Jones and
held that the informant’s tip and the corroborating evidence must
be separately considered. The tip was rejected because the affidavit
contained neither any information which showed the basis of the
tip nor any information which showed the informant’s credibility.
The corroborating evidence was rejected as insufficient because it
did not establish any element of criminality but merely related to
    119 358 U.S. 307 (1959). For another case applying essentially the same prob-

able cause standard to warrantless arrests as govern arrests by warrant, see Mc-
Cray v. Illinois, 386 U.S. 300 (1967) (informant’s statement to arresting officers met
Aguilar probable cause standard). See also Whitely v. Warden, 401 U.S. 560, 566
(1971) (standards must be “at least as stringent” for warrantless arrest as for obtain-
ing warrant).
    120 362 U.S. 257 (1960).
    121 378 U.S. 108 (1964).
    122 393 U.S. 410 (1969). Both concurring and dissenting Justices recognized ten-

sion between Draper and Aguilar. See id. at 423 (Justice White concurring), id. at
429 (Justice Black dissenting and advocating the overruling of Aguilar).
