                         SEARCH AND SEIZURE


                         FOURTH AMENDMENT

    The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses,
papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and sei-
zures, shall not be violated; and no Warrants shall issue but upon
probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particu-
larly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things
to be seized.

                                  SEARCH AND SEIZURE

        History and Scope of the Amendment
             History.—Few provisions of the Bill of Rights grew so directly
        out of the experience of the colonials as the Fourth Amendment,
        embodying as it did the protection against the use of the “writs of
        assistance.” But though the insistence on freedom from unreason-
        able searches and seizures as a fundamental right gained expres-
        sion in the colonies late and as a result of experience,1 there was
        also a rich English experience to draw on. “Every man’s house is
        his castle” was a maxim much celebrated in England, as Saman’s
        Case demonstrated in 1603.2 A civil case of execution of process,
        Saman’s Case nonetheless recognized the right of the homeowner
        to defend his house against unlawful entry even by the King’s agents,
        but at the same time recognized the authority of the appropriate
        officers to break and enter upon notice in order to arrest or to ex-
        ecute the King’s process. Most famous of the English cases was Entick
        v. Carrington,3 one of a series of civil actions against state officers
        who, pursuant to general warrants, had raided many homes and

             1 Apparently the first statement of freedom from unreasonable searches and sei-

        zures appeared in The Rights of the Colonists and a List of Infringements and Vio-
        lations of Rights, 1772, in the drafting of which Samuel Adams took the lead. 1 B.
        SCHWARTZ, THE BILL OF RIGHTS: A DOCUMENTARY HISTORY 199, 205–06 (1971).
             2 5 Coke’s Repts. 91a, 77 Eng. Rep. 194 (K.B. 1604). One of the most forceful

        expressions of the maxim was that of William Pitt in Parliament in 1763: “The poor-
        est man may in his cottage bid defiance to all the force of the crown. It may be
        frail—its roof may shake—the wind may blow through it—the storm may enter, the
        rain may enter—but the King of England cannot enter—all his force dares not cross
        the threshold of the ruined tenement.”
             3 19 Howell’s State Trials 1029, 95 Eng. 807 (1705).
