eas until it has reason to believe that a specific crime has been or
is being committed is thereby wholly aborted. Likewise the stat-
ute’s failure to describe with particularity the conversations sought
gives the officer a roving commission to ‘seize’ any and all conversa-
tions. It is true that the statute requires the naming of ‘the person
or persons whose communications, conversations or discussions are
to be overheard or recorded. . . .’ But this does no more than iden-
tify the person whose constitutionally protected area is to be in-
vaded rather than ‘particularly describing’ the communications, con-
versations, or discussions to be seized. . . . Secondly, authorization
of eavesdropping for a two-month period is the equivalent of a se-
ries of intrusions, searches, and seizures pursuant to a single show-
ing of probable cause. Prompt execution is also avoided. During such
a long and continuous (24 hours a day) period the conversations of
any and all persons coming into the area covered by the device will
be seized indiscriminately and without regard to their connection
with the crime under investigation. Moreover, the statute permits
. . . extensions of the original two-month period—presumably for
two months each—on a mere showing that such extension is ‘in the
public interest.’ . . . Third, the statute places no termination date
on the eavesdrop once the conversation sought is seized. . . . Fi-
nally, the statute’s procedure, necessarily because its success de-
pends on secrecy, has no requirement for notice as do conventional
warrants, nor does it overcome this defect by requiring some show-
ing of special facts. On the contrary, it permits unconsented entry
without any showing of exigent circumstances. Such a showing of
exigency, in order to avoid notice, would appear more important in
eavesdropping, with its inherent dangers, than that required when
conventional procedures of search and seizure are utilized. Nor does
the statute provide for a return on the warrant thereby leaving full
discretion in the officer as to the use of seized conversations of in-
nocent as well as guilty parties. In short, the statute’s blanket grant
of permission to eavesdrop is without adequate judicial supervision
or protective procedures.” 389
   Both Justices Black and White in dissent accused the Berger
majority of so construing the Fourth Amendment that no wiretapping-

     389 388 U.S. at 58–60. Justice Stewart concurred because he thought that the

affidavits in this case had not been sufficient to show probable cause, but he thought
the statute constitutional in compliance with the Fourth Amendment. Id. at 68. Jus-
tice Black dissented, arguing that the Fourth Amendment was not applicable to elec-
tronic eavesdropping but that in any event the “search” authorized by the statute
was reasonable. Id. at 70. Justice Harlan dissented, arguing that the statute with
its judicial gloss was in compliance with the Fourth Amendment. Id. at 89. Justice
White thought both the statute and its application in this case were constitutional.
Id. at 107.
