this Court to condemn as falling below the minimal standards as-
sured by the Due Process Clause a State’s reliance upon other meth-
ods which, if consistently enforced, would be equally effective.” 427
     It developed, however, that the Court had not vested in the states
total discretion with regard to the admissibility of evidence, as the
Court proceeded to evaluate under the due process clause the meth-
ods by which the evidence had been obtained. Thus, in Rochin v.
California,428 evidence of narcotics possession had been obtained by
forcible administration of an emetic to defendant at a hospital af-
ter officers had been unsuccessful in preventing him from swallow-
ing certain capsules. The evidence, said Justice Frankfurter for the
Court, should have been excluded because the police methods were
too objectionable. “This is conduct that shocks the conscience. Ille-
gally breaking into the privacy of the petitioner, the struggle to open
his mouth and remove what was there, the forcible extraction of
his stomach’s contents . . . is bound to offend even hardened sensi-
bilities. They are methods too close to the rack and screw.” 429 The
Rochin standard was limited in Irvine v. California,430 in which de-
fendant was convicted of bookmaking activities on the basis of evi-
dence secured by police who repeatedly broke into his house and
concealed electronic gear to broadcast every conversation in the house.
Justice Jackson’s plurality opinion asserted that Rochin had been
occasioned by the element of brutality, and that while the police
conduct in Irvine was blatantly illegal the admissibility of the evi-
dence was governed by Wolf, which should be consistently applied
for purposes of guidance to state courts. The Justice also enter-
tained considerable doubts about the efficacy of the exclusionary rule.431
Rochin emerged as the standard, however, in a later case in which
the Court sustained the admissibility of the results of a blood test
administered while defendant was unconscious in a hospital follow-



    427  338 U.S. at 31.
    428  342 U.S. 165 (1952). The police had initially entered defendant’s house with-
out a warrant. Justices Black and Douglas concurred in the result on self-
incrimination grounds.
     429 342 U.S. at 172.
     430 347 U.S. 128 (1954).
     431 347 U.S. at 134–38. Justice Clark, concurring, announced his intention to

vote to apply the exclusionary rule to the states when the votes were available. Id.
at 138. Justices Black and Douglas dissented on self-incrimination grounds, id. at
139, and Justice Douglas continued to urge the application of the exclusionary rule
to the states. Id. at 149. Justices Frankfurter and Burton dissented on due process
grounds, arguing the relevance of Rochin. Id. at 142.
