    Scope of the Amendment.—The language of the provision that
became the Fourth Amendment underwent some modest changes
on its passage through the Congress, and it is possible that the changes
reflected more than a modest significance in the interpretation of
the relationship of the two clauses. Madison’s introduced version
provided “The rights to be secured in their persons, their houses,
their papers, and their other property, from all unreasonable searches
and seizures, shall not be violated by warrants issued without prob-
able cause, supported by oath or affirmation, or not particularly de-
scribing the places to be searched, or the persons or things to be
seized.” 8 As reported from committee, with an inadvertent omis-
sion corrected on the floor,9 the section was almost identical to the
introduced version, and the House defeated a motion to substitute
“and no warrant shall issue” for “by warrants issuing” in the com-
mittee draft. In some fashion, the rejected amendment was in-
serted in the language before passage by the House and is the lan-
guage of the ratified constitutional provision.10
    As noted above, the noteworthy disputes over search and sei-
zure in England and the colonies revolved about the character of
warrants. There were, however, lawful warrantless searches, pri-
marily searches incident to arrest, and these apparently gave rise
to no disputes. Thus, the question arises whether the Fourth Amend-
ment’s two clauses must be read together to mean that the only
searches and seizures which are “reasonable” are those which meet
the requirements of the second clause, that is, are pursuant to war-
rants issued under the prescribed safeguards, or whether the two
clauses are independent, so that searches under warrant must com-
ply with the second clause but that there are “reasonable” searches
under the first clause that need not comply with the second clause.11
This issue has divided the Court for some time, has seen several
reversals of precedents, and is important for the resolution of many
    8  1 ANNALS OF CONGRESS 434–35 (June 8, 1789).
    9  The word “secured” was changed to “secure” and the phrase “against unreason-
able searches and seizures” was reinstated. Id. at 754 (August 17, 1789).
     10 Id. It has been theorized that the author of the defeated revision, who was

chairman of the committee appointed to arrange the amendments prior to House
passage, simply inserted his provision and that it passed unnoticed. N. LASSON, THE
HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE FOURTH AMENDMENT TO THE UNITED STATES CONSTITUTION
101–03 (1937).
     11 The amendment was originally in one clause as quoted above; it was the in-

sertion of the defeated amendment to the language which changed the text into two
clauses and arguably had the effect of extending the protection against unreason-
able searches and seizures beyond the requirements imposed on the issuance of war-
rants. It is also possible to read the two clauses together to mean that some sei-
zures even under warrants would be unreasonable, and this reading has indeed been
effectuated in certain cases, although for independent reasons. Boyd v. United States,
116 U.S. 616 (1886); Gouled v. United States, 255 U.S. 298 (1921), overruled by War-
