    Herring is significant because previous cases applying the good-
faith exception to the exclusionary rule have involved principally
Fourth Amendment violations not by the police, but by other gov-
ernmental entities, such as the judiciary or the legislature. Al-
though the error in Herring was committed by a police employee
other than the arresting officer, the introduction of a balancing test
to evaluate police conduct raises the possibility that even Fourth
Amendment violations caused by the negligent actions of an arrest-
ing officer might in the future evade the application of the exclusion-
ary rule.477
    For instance, it is unclear from the Court’s analysis in Leon and
its progeny whether a majority of the Justices would also support
a good-faith exception for evidence seized without a warrant, al-
though there is some language broad enough to apply to warrant-
less seizures.478 It is also unclear what a good-faith exception would
mean in the context of a warrantless search, because the objective
reasonableness of an officer’s action in proceeding without a war-
rant is already taken into account in determining whether there
has been a Fourth Amendment violation.479 The Court’s increasing
willingness to uphold warrantless searches as not “unreasonable”
under the Fourth Amendment, however, may reduce the frequency
with which the good-faith issue arises in the context of the exclu-
sionary rule.480
tional premise of tort law—that liability for negligence, i.e., lack of due care, creates
an incentive to act with greater care.” Id. at 708. Justice Breyer, in a dissent joined
by Justice Souter, noted that, although the Court had previously held that recordkeep-
ing errors made by a court clerk do not trigger the exclusionary rule, Arizona v.
Evans, 514 U.S. 1 (1995), he believed that recordkeeping errors made by the police
should trigger the rule, as the majority’s “case-by-case, multifactored inquiry into
the degree of police culpability” would be difficult for the courts to administer. Id. at
711.
      477 See Leon, 468 U.S. 897, 926 (1984) (articulating, in dicta, an “intentional or

reckless” misconduct standard for obviating “good faith” reliance on an invalid war-
rant).
      478 The thrust of the analysis in Leon was with the reasonableness of reliance

on a warrant. The Court several times, however, used language broad enough to
apply to warrantless searches as well. See, e.g., 468 U.S. at 909 (quoting Justice
White’s concurrence in Illinois v. Gates): “the balancing approach that has evolved
. . . ‘forcefully suggest[s] that the exclusionary rule be more generally modified to
permit the introduction of evidence obtained in the reasonable good-faith belief that
a search or seizure was in accord with the Fourth Amendment’ ”; and id. at 919:
“[the rule] cannot be expected, and should not be applied, to deter objectively reason-
able law enforcement activity.”
      479 See Yale Kamisar, Gates, ‘Probable Cause’, ‘Good Faith’, and Beyond, 69 IOWA

L. REV. 551, 589 (1984) (imposition of a good-faith exception on top of the “already
diluted” standard for validity of a warrant “would amount to double dilution”).
      480 See, e.g., Illinois v. Rodriguez, 497 U.S. 177 (1990) (upholding search pre-

mised on officer’s reasonable but mistaken belief that a third party had common
authority over premises and could consent to search); Schneckloth v. Bustamonte,
412 U.S. 218 (1973) (no requirement of knowing and intelligent waiver in consent-
