    Dewey was distinguished from Barlow’s in several ways. First,
Dewey involved a single industry, unlike the broad coverage in
Barlow’s. Second, the OSHA statute gave minimal direction to in-
spectors as to time, scope, and frequency of inspections, while FMSHA
specified a regular number of inspections pursuant to standards.
Third, deference was due Congress’s determination that unan-
nounced inspections were necessary if the safety laws were to be
effectively enforced. Fourth, FMSHA provided businesses the oppor-
tunity to contest the search by resisting in the civil proceeding the
Secretary had to bring if consent was denied.91 The standard of a
long tradition of government supervision permitting warrantless in-
spections was dispensed with, because it would lead to “absurd re-
sults,” in that new and emerging industries posing great hazards
would escape regulation.92 Dewey suggests, therefore, that warrant-
less inspections of commercial establishments are permissible so long
as the legislature carefully drafts its statute.
    Dewey was applied in New York v. Burger 93 to inspection of au-
tomobile junkyards and vehicle dismantling operations, a situation
where there is considerable overlap between administrative and pe-
nal objectives. Applying the Dewey three-part test, the Court con-
cluded that New York has a substantial interest in stemming the
tide of automobile thefts, that regulation of vehicle dismantling rea-
sonably serves that interest, and that statutory safeguards pro-
vided adequate substitute for a warrant requirement. The Court re-
jected the suggestion that the warrantless inspection provisions were
designed as an expedient means of enforcing the penal laws, and
instead saw narrower, valid regulatory purposes to be served, such
as establishing a system for tracking stolen automobiles and parts,
and enhancing the ability of legitimate businesses to compete. “[A]
State can address a major social problem both by way of an admin-
istrative scheme and through penal sanctions,” the Court declared;
in such circumstances warrantless administrative searches are per-
missible in spite of the fact that evidence of criminal activity may
well be uncovered in the process.94
     91 452 U.S. at 596–97, 604–05. Pursuant to the statute, however, the Secretary

has promulgated regulations providing for the assessment of civil penalties for de-
nial of entry and Dewey had been assessed a penalty of $1,000. Id. at 597 n.3. It
was also true in Barlow’s that the government resorted to civil process upon refusal
to admit. 436 U.S. at 317 & n.12.
     92 Donovan v. Dewey, 452 U.S. 594, 606 (1981). Duration of regulation will now

be a factor in assessing the legitimate expectation of privacy of a business. Id. Ac-
cord, New York v. Burger, 482 U.S. 691 (1987) (although duration of regulation of
vehicle dismantling was relatively brief, history of regulation of junk business gen-
erally was lengthy, and current regulation of dismantling was extensive).
     93 482 U.S. 691 (1987).
     94 482 U.S. at 712 (emphasis in original).
