eavesdropping statute could pass constitutional scrutiny,390 and, in
Katz v. United States,391 the Court in an opinion by one of the Berger
dissenters, Justice Stewart, modified some of its language and pointed
to Court approval of some types of statutorily-authorized electronic
surveillance. Just as Berger had confirmed that one rationale of the
Olmstead decision, the inapplicability of “seizure” to conversations,
was no longer valid, Katz disposed of the other rationale. In the
latter case, officers had affixed a listening device to the outside wall
of a telephone booth regularly used by Katz and activated it each
time he entered; since there had been no physical trespass into the
booth, the lower courts held the Fourth Amendment not relevant.
The Court disagreed, saying that “once it is recognized that the Fourth
Amendment protects people—and not simply ‘areas’—against unrea-
sonable searches and seizures, it becomes clear that the reach of
that Amendment cannot turn upon the presence or absence of a physi-
cal intrusion into any given enclosure.” 392 Because the surveillance
of Katz’s telephone calls had not been authorized by a magistrate,
it was invalid; however, the Court thought that “it is clear that this
surveillance was so narrowly circumscribed that a duly authorized
magistrate, properly notified of the need for such investigation, spe-
cifically informed of the basis on which it was to proceed, and clearly
apprised of the precise intrusion it would entail, could constitution-
ally have authorized, with appropriate safeguards, the very limited
search and seizure that the government asserts in fact took place.” 393
The notice requirement, which had loomed in Berger as an obstacle



    390  388 U.S. at 71, 113.
    391  389 U.S. 347 (1967).
     392 389 U.S. at 353. “We conclude that the underpinnings of Olmstead and Gold-

man have been so eroded by our subsequent decisions that the ‘trespass’ doctrine
there enunciated can no longer be regarded as controlling. The Government’s activi-
ties in electronically listening to and recording the petitioner’s words violated the
privacy upon which he justifiably relied while using the telephone booth and thus
constituted a ‘search and seizure’ within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment.”
     393 389 U.S. at 354. The “narrowly circumscribed” nature of the surveillance was

made clear by the Court in the immediately preceding passage. “[The Government
agents] did not begin their electronic surveillance until investigation of the petition-
er’s activities had established a strong probability that he was using the telephone
in question to transmit gambling information to persons in other States, in viola-
tion of federal law. Moreover, the surveillance was limited, both in scope and in du-
ration, to the specific purpose of establishing the contents of the petitioner’s unlaw-
ful telephonic communications. The agents confined their surveillance to the brief
periods during which he used the telephone booth, and they took great care to over-
hear only the conversations of the petitioner himself.” Id. For similar emphasis upon
precision and narrow circumscription, see Osborn v. United States, 385 U.S. 323,
329–30 (1966).
