    Warrantless “National Security” Electronic Surveil-
lance.—In Katz v. United States,398 Justice White sought to pre-
serve for a future case the possibility that in “national security cases”
electronic surveillance upon the authorization of the President or
the Attorney General could be permissible without prior judicial ap-
proval. The Executive Branch then asserted the power to wiretap
and to “bug” in two types of national security situations, against
domestic subversion and against foreign intelligence operations, first
basing its authority on a theory of “inherent” presidential power
and then in the Supreme Court withdrawing to the argument that
such surveillance was a “reasonable” search and seizure and there-
fore valid under the Fourth Amendment. Unanimously, the Court
held that at least in cases of domestic subversive investigations, com-
pliance with the warrant provisions of the Fourth Amendment was
required.399 Whether or not a search was reasonable, wrote Justice
Powell for the Court, was a question which derived much of its an-
swer from the warrant clause; except in a few narrowly circum-
scribed classes of situations, only those searches conducted pursu-
ant to warrants were reasonable. The Government’s duty to preserve
the national security did not override the guarantee that before gov-
ernment could invade the privacy of its citizens it must present to
a neutral magistrate evidence sufficient to support issuance of a war-
rant authorizing that invasion of privacy.400 This protection was even

     398 389 U.S. 347, 363–64 (1967) (concurring opinion). Justices Douglas and Bren-

nan rejected the suggestion. Id. at 359–60 (concurring opinion). When it enacted its
1968 electronic surveillance statute, Congress alluded to the problem in ambiguous
fashion, 18 U.S.C. § 2511(3), which the Court subsequently interpreted as having
expressed no congressional position at all. United States v. United States District
Court, 407 U.S. 297, 302–08 (1972).
     399 United States v. United States District Court, 407 U.S. 297 (1972). Chief Jus-

tice Burger concurred in the result and Justice White concurred on the ground that
the 1968 law required a warrant in this case, and therefore did not reach the consti-
tutional issue. Id. at 340. Justice Rehnquist did not participate. Justice Powell care-
fully noted that the case required “no judgment on the scope of the President’s sur-
veillance power with respect to the activities of foreign powers, within or without
this country.” Id. at 308.
     400 The case contains a clear suggestion that the Court would approve a congres-

sional provision for a different standard of probable cause in national security cases.
“We recognize that domestic security surveillance may involve different policy and
practical considerations from the surveillance of ‘ordinary crime.’ The gathering of
security intelligence is often long range and involves the interrelation of various sources
and types of information. The exact targets of such surveillance may be more diffi-
cult to identify than in surveillance operations against many types of crimes speci-
fied in Title III. Often, too, the emphasis of domestic intelligence gathering is on the
prevention of unlawful activity or the enhancement of the Government’s prepared-
ness for some future crisis or emergency. . . . Different standards may be compat-
ible with the Fourth Amendment if they are reasonable both in relation to the legiti-
mate need of Government for intelligence information and the protected rights of
our citizens. For the warrant application may vary according to the governmental
interest to be enforced and the nature of citizen right deserving protection. . . . It
