     Operation of the Rule: Standing.—The Court for a long pe-
riod followed a rule of “standing” by which it determined whether
a party was the appropriate person to move to suppress allegedly
illegal evidence. Akin to Article III justiciability principles, which
emphasize that one may ordinarily contest only those government
actions that harm him, the standing principle in Fourth Amend-
ment cases “require[d] of one who seeks to challenge the legality of
a search as the basis for suppressing relevant evidence that he al-
lege, and if the allegation be disputed that he establish, that he
himself was the victim of an invasion of privacy.” 481 Subsequently,
the Court departed from the concept of standing to telescope the
inquiry into one inquiry rather than two. Finding that standing served
no useful analytical purpose, the Court has held that the issue of
exclusion is to be determined solely upon a resolution of the sub-
stantive question whether the claimant’s Fourth Amendment rights
have been violated. “We can think of no decided cases of this Court
that would have come out differently had we concluded . . . that
the type of standing requirement . . . reaffirmed today is more prop-
erly subsumed under substantive Fourth Amendment doctrine. Rig-
orous application of the principle that the rights secured by this
Amendment are personal, in place of a notion of ‘standing,’ will pro-
duce no additional situations in which evidence must be excluded.
The inquiry under either approach is the same.” 482 One must there-
fore show that “the disputed search and seizure has infringed an
interest of the defendant which the Fourth Amendment was de-
signed to protect.” 483
    The Katz reasonable expectation of privacy rationale has now
displaced property-ownership concepts that previously might have
supported either standing to suppress or the establishment of an
interest that has been invaded. Thus, it is no longer sufficient to
allege possession or ownership of seized goods to establish the in-
terest, if a justifiable expectation of privacy of the defendant was
ing to warrantless search); New York v. Belton, 453 U.S. 454 (1981) (upholding war-
rantless search of entire interior of passenger car, including closed containers, as
incident to arrest of driver); Arizona v. Gant, 556 U.S. ___, No. 07–542 (U.S. Apr. 21
(2009), slip op. at 18 (the Belton rule applies “only if the arrestee is within reaching
distance of the passenger compartment at the time of the search or it is reasonable
to believe that the vehicle contains evidence of the offense of arrest”); United States
v. Ross, 456 U.S. 798 (1982) (upholding warrantless search of movable container found
in a locked car trunk).
     481 Jones v. United States, 362 U.S. 257, 261 (1960). That is, the movant must

show that he was “a victim of search or seizure, one against whom the search was
directed, as distinguished from one who claims prejudice only through the use of
evidence gathered as a consequence of search or seizure directed at someone else.”
Id. See Alderman v. United States, 394 U.S. 165, 174 (1969).
     482 Rakas v. Illinois, 439 U.S. 128, 139 (1978).
     483 439 U.S. at 140.
