rent effect on officers than it would when officers reasonably rely
on an invalid warrant, and no more deterrent effect on legislators
who enact invalid statutes than on magistrates who issue invalid
warrants.472 Finally, the Court has held that the exclusionary rule
does not apply if the police conduct a search in objectively reason-
able reliance on binding judicial precedent, even a defendant suc-
cessfully challenges that precedent.473
     The Court also applied Leon to allow the admission of evidence
obtained incident to an arrest that was based on a mistaken belief
that there was probable cause to arrest, where the mistaken belief
had resulted from a negligent bookkeeping error by a police em-
ployee other than the arresting officer. In Herring v. United States,474
a police employee had failed to remove from the police computer
database an arrest warrant that had been recalled five months ear-
lier, and the arresting officer as a consequence mistakenly believed
that the arrest warrant remained in effect. The Court upheld the
admission of evidence because the error had been “the result of iso-
lated negligence attenuated from the arrest.” 475 Although the Court
did “not suggest that all recordkeeping errors by the police are im-
mune from the exclusionary rule,” it emphasized that, “[t]o trigger
the exclusionary rule, police conduct must be sufficiently deliberate
that exclusion can meaningfully deter it, and sufficiently culpable
that such deterrence is worth the price paid by the justice system.
As laid out in our cases, the exclusionary rule serves to deter delib-
erate, reckless, or grossly negligent conduct, or in some circum-
stances recurring or systemic negligence.” 476

     472 Dissenting Justice O’Connor disagreed with this second conclusion, suggest-

ing that the grace period “during which the police may freely perform unreasonable
searches . . . creates a positive incentive [for legislatures] to promulgate unconstitu-
tional laws,” and that the Court’s ruling “destroys all incentive on the part of indi-
vidual criminal defendants to litigate the violation of their Fourth Amendment rights”
and thereby obtain a ruling on the validity of the statute. 480 U.S. at 366, 369.
     473 Davis v. United States, 564 U.S. ___, No. 09–11328, slip op. (2011). Justice

Breyer, in dissent, points out that under Griffith v. Kentucky, 479 U.S. 314 (1987),
“a new rule for the conduct of criminal prosecutions is to be applied retroactively to
all cases, state or federal, pending on direct review or not yet final . . . .” Thus, the
majority opinion in Davis would allow the incongruous result that a defendant could
prove his Fourth Amendment rights had been violated, but could still be left with-
out a viable remedy. Id. at 2 (Breyer, J., dissenting).
     474 555 U.S. ___, No. 07–513, slip op. (2009), Herring was a five-to-four decision,

with two dissenting opinions.
     475 129 S. Ct. at 698.
     476 129 S. Ct. at 703, 702. Justice Ginsburg, in a dissent joined by Justices Ste-

vens, Souter, and Breyer, stated that “the Court’s opinion underestimates the need
for a forceful exclusionary rule and the gravity of recordkeeping errors in law en-
forcement.” Id. at 706. Justice Ginsburg added that the majority’s suggestion that
the exclusionary rule “is capable of only marginal deterrence when the misconduct
at issue is merely careless, not intentional or reckless . . . runs counter to a founda-
