details which were innocent in themselves. No additional corrobo-
rating weight was due as a result of the bald police assertion that
defendant was a known gambler, although the tip related to gam-
bling. Returning to the totality test, however, the Court in United
States v. Harris 123 approved a warrant issued largely on an inform-
er’s tip that over a two-year period he had purchased illegal whis-
key from the defendant at the defendant’s residence, most recently
within two weeks of the tip. The affidavit contained rather detailed
information about the concealment of the whiskey, and asserted that
the informer was a “prudent person,” that defendant had a reputa-
tion as a bootlegger, that other persons had supplied similar infor-
mation about him, and that he had been found in control of illegal
whiskey within the previous four years. The Court determined that
the detailed nature of the tip, the personal observation thus re-
vealed, and the fact that the informer had admitted to criminal be-
havior by his purchase of whiskey were sufficient to enable the mag-
istrate to find him reliable, and that the supporting evidence, including
defendant’s reputation, could supplement this determination.
     The Court expressly abandoned the two-part Aguilar-Spinelli test
and returned to the “totality of the circumstances” approach to evalu-
ate probable cause based on an informant’s tip in Illinois v. Gates.124
The main defect of the two-part test, Justice Rehnquist concluded
for the Court, was in treating an informant’s reliability and his ba-
sis for knowledge as independent requirements. Instead, “a defi-
ciency in one may be compensated for, in determining the overall
reliability of a tip, by a strong showing as to the other, or by some
other indicia of reliability.” 125 In evaluating probable cause, “[t]he
task of the issuing magistrate is simply to make a practical, com-
monsense decision whether, given all the circumstances set forth in
the affidavit before him, including the ‘veracity’ and ‘basis of knowl-
edge’ of persons supplying hearsay information, there is a fair prob-
ability that contraband or evidence of a crime will be found in a
particular place.” 126
     Particularity.—“The requirement that warrants shall particu-
larly describe the things to be seized makes general searches un-
der them impossible and prevents the seizure of one thing under a
    123 403 U.S. 573 (1971). See also Adams v. Williams, 407 U.S. 143, 147 (1972)

(approving warrantless stop of motorist based on informant’s tip that “may have been
insufficient” under Aguilar and Spinelli as basis for warrant).
    124 462 U.S. 213 (1983). Justice Rehnquist’s opinion of the Court was joined by

Chief Justice Burger and by Justices Blackmun, Powell, and O’Connor. Justices Bren-
nan, Marshall, and Stevens dissented.
    125 462 U.S. at 213.
    126 462 U.S. at 238. For an application of the Gates “totality of the circum-

stances” test to the warrantless search of a vehicle by a police officer, see, e.g., Florida
v. Harris, 568 U.S. ___, No. 11–817, slip op. (2013).
