     In two other cases, the Court found that there were no “special
needs” justifying random testing. Georgia’s requirement that candi-
dates for state office certify that they had passed a drug test, the
Court ruled in Chandler v. Miller 375 was “symbolic” rather than “spe-
cial.” There was nothing in the record to indicate any actual fear
or suspicion of drug use by state officials, the required certification
was not well designed to detect illegal drug use, and candidates for
state office, unlike the customs officers held subject to drug testing
in Von Raab, are subject to “relentless” public scrutiny. In the sec-
ond case, a city-run hospital’s program for drug screening of preg-
nant patients suspected of cocaine use was invalidated because its
purpose was to collect evidence for law enforcement.376 In the pre-
vious three cases in which random testing had been upheld, the
Court pointed out, the “special needs” asserted as justification were
“divorced from the general interest in law enforcement.” 377 By con-
trast, the screening program’s focus on law enforcement brought it
squarely within the Fourth Amendment’s restrictions.

Electronic Surveillance and the Fourth Amendment
    The Olmstead Case.—With the invention of the microphone,
the telephone, and the dictagraph recorder, it became possible to
“eavesdrop” with much greater secrecy and expediency. Inevitably,
the use of electronic devices in law enforcement was challenged, and
in 1928 the Court reviewed convictions obtained on the basis of evi-
dence gained through taps on telephone wires in violation of state
law. On a five-to-four vote, the Court held that wiretapping was not
within the confines of the Fourth Amendment.378 Chief Justice Taft,
writing the opinion of the Court, relied on two lines of argument
for the conclusion. First, because the Amendment was designed to
protect one’s property interest in his premises, there was no search
so long as there was no physical trespass on premises owned or
controlled by a defendant. Second, all the evidence obtained had been
secured by hearing, and the interception of a conversation could not
qualify as a seizure, for the Amendment referred only to the sei-
zure of tangible items. Furthermore, the violation of state law did

Id. Dissenting Justice Ginsburg pointed out that these situations requiring a change
of clothes on occasional out-of-town trips are “hardly equivalent to the routine com-
munal undress associated with athletics.” Id. at 848.
     375 520 U.S. 305 (1997).
     376 Ferguson v. City of Charleston, 532 U.S. 67 (2001).
     377 532 U.S. at 79.
     378 Olmstead v. United States, 277 U.S. 438 (1928).
