     PROPOSED AMENDMENTS NOT RATIFIED BY THE
                    STATES
     During the course of our history, in addition to the 27 amendments which
have been ratified by the required three-fourths of the States, six other amend-
ments have been submitted to the States but have not been ratified by them.
     Beginning with the proposed Eighteenth Amendment, Congress has cus-
tomarily included a provision requiring ratification within seven years from
the time of the submission to the States. The Supreme Court in Coleman v.
Miller, 307 U.S. 433 (1939), declared that the question of the reasonableness
of the time within which a sufficient number of States must act is a political
question to be determined by the Congress.
     In 1789, at the time of the submission of the Bill of Rights, twelve pro-
posed amendments were submitted to the States. Of these, Articles III–XII
were ratified and became the first ten amendments to the Constitution. Pro-
posed Articles I and II were not ratified with these ten, but, in 1992, Article
II was proclaimed as ratified, 203 years later. The following is the text of
proposed Article I:
        ARTICLE I. After the first enumeration required by the first article of the Constitu-
   tion, there shall be one Representative for every thirty thousand, until the number shall
   amount to one hundred, after which the proportion shall be so regulated by Congress,
   that there shall be not less than one hundred Representatives, nor less than one Rep-
   resentative for every forty thousand persons, until the number of Representatives shall
   amount to two hundred; after which the proportion shall be so regulated by Congress,
   that there shall not be less than two hundred Representatives, nor more than one Rep-
   resentative for every fifty thousand persons.


    Thereafter, in the 2d session of the 11th Congress, the Congress pro-
posed the following amendment to the Constitution relating to acceptance
by citizens of the United States of titles of nobility from any foreign govern-
ment.
    The proposed amendment which was not ratified by three-fourths of the
States reads as follows:
        Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America
   in Congress assembled (two-thirds of both Houses concurring), That the following sec-
   tion be submitted to the legislatures of the several states, which, when ratified by the
   legislatures of three fourths of the states, shall be valid and binding, as a part of the
   constitution of the United States.
        If any citizen of the United States shall accept, claim, receive or retain any title of
   nobility or honour, or shall, without the consent of Congress, accept and retain any
   present, pension, office or emolument of any kind whatever, from any emperor, king,
   prince or foreign power, such person shall cease to be a citizen of the United States,
   and shall be incapable of holding any office of trust or profit under them, or either of
   them.
