     During the second session of the 36th Congress on March 2, 1861, the
following proposed amendment to the Constitution relating to slavery was
signed by the President. It is interesting to note in this connection that this
is the only proposed amendment to the Constitution ever signed by the Presi-
dent. The President’s signature is considered unnecessary because of the con-
stitutional provision that upon the concurrence of two-thirds of both Houses
of Congress the proposal shall be submitted to the States and shall be rati-
fied by three-fourths of the States.
        Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America
   in Congress assembled, That the following article be proposed to the Legislatures of the
   several States as an amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which, when
   ratified by three-fourths of said Legislatures, shall be valid, to all intents and pur-
   poses, as part of the said Constitution, viz:

                                          “ARTICLE THIRTEEN
       “No amendment shall be made to the Constitution which will authorize or give to
   Congress the power to abolish or interfere, within any State, with the domestic institu-
   tions thereof, including that of persons held to labor or service by the laws of said State.’’


     In more recent times, only three proposed amendments have not been
ratified by three-fourths of the States. The first is the proposed child-labor
amendment, which was submitted to the States during the 1st session of the
68th Congress in June 1924, as follows:
       JOINT RESOLUTION PROPOSING   AN   AMENDMENT   TO THE   CONSTITUTION   OF THE   UNITED STATES
        Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America
   in Congress assembled (two-thirds of each House concurring therein), That the follow-
   ing article is proposed as an amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which
   when ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States, shall be valid to
   all intents and purposes as a part of the Constitution:

                                            ARTICLE———
        SECTION 1. The Congress shall have power to limit, regulate, and prohibit the labor
   of persons under 18 years of age.
        SECTION 2. The power of the several States is unimpaired by this article except that
   the operation of State laws shall be suspended to the extent necessary to give effect to
   legislation enacted by the Congress.


    The second proposed amendment to have failed of ratification is the equal
rights amendment, which formally died on June 30, 1982, after a disputed
congressional extension of the original seven-year period for ratification.
                                    HOUSE JOINT RESOLUTION 208
       Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States relative to equal
   rights for men and women.
