        Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America
   in Congress assembled (two-thirds of each House concurring therein), That
        The following article is proposed as an amendment to the Constitution of the United
   States, which shall be valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when
   ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States within seven years
   from the date of its submission by the Congress:
        “SECTION 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the
   United States or by any State on account of sex.
        “SECTION 2. The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legisla-
   tion, the provisions of this article.
        “SECTION 3. This amendment shall take effect two years after the date of ratifica-
   tion.’’


     The third proposed amendment relating to representation in Congress
for the District of Columbia failed of ratification, 16 States having ratified
as of the 1985 expiration date for the ratification period.
                                 HOUSE JOINT RESOLUTION 554
        Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America
   in Congress assembled (two-thirds of each House concurring therein), That the follow-
   ing article is proposed as an amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which
   shall be valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when ratified by
   the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States within seven years from the date
   of its submission by the Congress:

                                           “ARTICLE
       “SECTION 1. For purposes of representation in the Congress, election of the Presi-
   dent and Vice President, and article V of this Constitution, the District constituting
   the seat of government of the United States shall be treated as though it were a State.
       “SEC. 2. The exercise of the rights and powers conferred under this article shall be
   by the people of the District constituting the seat of government, and as shall be pro-
   vided by the Congress.
       “SEC. 3. The twenty-third article of amendment to the Constitution of the United
   States is hereby repealed.
       “SEC. 4. This article shall be inoperative, unless it shall have been ratified as an
   amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States
   within seven years from the date of its submission.’’
