      INTRODUCTION TO THE 2012 CENTENNIAL
                   EDITION
     The need for a comprehensive treatise on the Constitution was apparent to Congress from
early in the 20th century. In 1911, the Senate Manual (a compilation of the Senate’s parliamen-
tary procedures) included the United States Constitution and amendments with citations to U.S.
Supreme Court constitutional decisions. A century later, the field of constitutional law has ex-
panded exponentially. As a result, this present iteration of that early publication exceeds 2300
hundred pages, and references almost 6000 cases. Consistent with its publication in the 21st
Century, this volume is available at the website of the Government Printing Office
(www.gpo.gov/constitutionannotated) and will be updated regularly as Supreme Court cases are
decided.
     Sixty years ago, Professor Edward S. Corwin wrote an introduction to this treatise that
broadly explored then existent trends of constitutional adjudication. In some respects—the law
of federalism, the withdrawal of judicial supervision of economic regulation, the continued ex-
pansion of presidential power and the consequent overshadowing of Congress—he has been con-
firmed in his evaluations. But, in other respects, entire new vistas of fundamental law of which
he was largely unaware have opened up. Brown v. Board of Education was but two Terms of
the Court away, and the revolution in race relations brought about by all three branches of the
Federal Government could have been only dimly perceived. The apportionment-districting deci-
sions were still blanketed in time; abortion as a constitutionally protected liberty was unher-
alded. The Supreme Court’s application of many provisions of the Bill of Rights to the States
was then nascent, and few could anticipate that the expanded meaning and application of these
Amendments would prove revolutionary. Sixty years has also exposed the ebb and flow of consti-
tutional law, from the liberal activism of the 1960s and 1970s to a more recent posture of judi-
cial restraint or even conservative activism. Throughout this period of change, however, certain
movements, notably expansion of the protection of speech and press, continued apace despite
ideological shifts.
     This brief survey is primarily a suggestive review of the Court’s treatment of the doctrines
of constitutional law over the last sixty years, with a closer focus on issues that have arisen
since the last volume of this treatise was published ten years ago. For instance, in previous
editions we noted the rise of federalism concerns, but only in the last two decade has the strength
of the Court’s deference toward states become apparent. Conversely, in this treatise as well as
in previous ones, we note the rise of the equal protection clause as a central concept of constitu-
tional jurisprudence in the period 1952–1982. Although that rise has somewhat abated in re-
cent years, the clause remains one of the predominant sources of constitutional constraints upon
the Federal Government and the States. Similarly, the due process clauses of the Fifth and
Fourteenth Amendments, recently slowed in their expansion, remain significant both in terms
of procedural protections for civil and criminal litigants and in terms of the application of sub-
stantive due process to personal liberties.

                                           SECTION I
     Issues relating to national federalism as a doctrine have proved to be far more pervasive
and encompassing than it was possible to anticipate in 1952. In some respects, of course, later
cases only confirmed those decisions already on the books. The foremost example of this confir-
mation has been the enlargement of congressional power under the commerce clause. The expan-
sive reading of that clause’s authorization to Congress to reach many local incidents of business
and production was already apparent by 1952. Despite the abundance of new legislation under
this power during the 1960s to 1980s, the doctrine itself was scarcely enlarged beyond the lim-
its of that earlier period. Under the commerce clause, Congress can assert legislative jurisdic-
tion on the basis of movement over a state boundary, whether antecedent or subsequent to the
point of regulation; can regulate other elements touching upon those transactions, such as in-
