cacy of violence or unlawful activity has become more restricted. Obscenity abstractly remains
outside the protective confines of the First Amendment, but the Court’s changing definitional
approach to what may be constitutionally denominated obscenity has closely confined most gov-
ernmental action taken against the verbal and pictorial representation of matters dealing with
sex. Commercial speech, long the outcast of the First Amendment, now enjoys a protected if
subordinate place in free speech jurisprudence. Freedom to picket, to broadcast leaflets, and to
engage in physical activity representative of one’s political, social, economic, or other views, en-
joys wide though not unlimited protection. False statements, long derided as being of little First
Amendment value, were brought within the ambit of free speech, although the standard of pro-
tection afforded to such a law—here, lying about one’s military record—remains unsettled.
     While First Amendment doctrine remains sensitive to the make-up of the Court, the trend
for many years has been a substantial though uneven expansion. In particular, the association
of the right to spend for political purposes with the right to associate together for political activ-
ity has meant that much governmental regulation of campaign finance and of limitations upon
the political activities of citizens and public employees had become suspect if not impermissible.
For example, during the last decade, confronted with renewed attempts by Congress to level
the playing field between differing voices with disparate economic resources, the Court first ac-
cepted, and then rejected these new regulations. In the process, corporations, long barred from
direct political advocacy, were given even greater access to the political arena.

                                           SECTION IV

     Unremarked by scholars of some sixty years ago was the place of the equal protection clause
in constitutional jurisprudence—simply because at that time Holmes’ pithy characterization of
it as a “last resort” argument was generally true. Subsequently, however, especially during the
Warren era, equal protection litigation occupied a position of almost predominant character in
each Term’s output. The rational basis standard of review of different treatments of individuals,
businesses, or subjects remained of little concern to the Justices. Rather, the clause blossomed
after Brown v. Board of Education, as the Court confronted state and local laws and ordinances
drawn on the basis of race. This aspect of the doctrinal use of the clause is still very evident on
the Court’s docket, though in ever new and interesting forms.
     Of worthy attention has been the application of equal protection, now in a three-tier or
multi-tier set of standards of review, to legislation and other governmental action classifying on
the basis of sex, illegitimacy, and alienage. Of equal importance was the elaboration of the con-
cept of “fundamental” rights, so that when the government restricts one of these rights, it must
show not merely a reasonable basis for its actions but a justification based upon compelling
necessity. Wealth distinctions in the criminal process, for instance, were viewed with hostility
and generally invalidated. The right to vote, nowhere expressly guaranteed in the Constitution
(but protected against abridgment on certain grounds in the Fifteenth, Nineteenth, and Twenty-
sixth Amendments) nonetheless was found to require the invalidation of all but the most simple
voter qualifications; most barriers to ballot access by individuals and parties; and the practice
of apportionment of state legislatures on any basis other than population. In the controversial
decision of Bush v. Gore, the Court relied on the right to vote in effectively ending the disputed
2000 presidential election, noting that the Florida Supreme Court had allowed the use of non-
unified standards to evaluate challenged ballots. Although the Court’s decision was of real politi-
cal import, it was so limited by its own terms that it carries no doctrinal significance.
     In other respects, the reconstituted Court has made some tentative rearrangements of equal
protection doctrinal developments. The suspicion-of-wealth classification was largely though not
entirely limited to the criminal process. Governmental discretion in the political process was
enlarged a small degree. But the record generally is one of consolidation and maintenance of
the doctrines, a refusal to go forward much but also a disinclination to retreat much. Only re-
cently has the Court, in decisional law largely cast in remedial terms, begun to dismantle some
of the structure of equal protection constraints on institutions, such as schools, prisons, state
hospitals, and the like. Now, we see the beginnings of a sea change in the Court’s perspective
