the time it was drafted paramount, or should the intent and expectations of the drafters pre-
vail? This distinction can lead to different opinions on whether the Second Amendment protects
individual or collective rights. Is “originalism” more “objective” and “faithful” than “living Con-
stitution” analysis? Some commentators asserted that “originalism” is both unduly rigid in lim-
iting analysis to contemporaneous sources and malleable in presenting the interpreter with a
range of often contradictory historical materials. In any event, a constitutional case in the twenty-
first century without a line of probative judicial precedent to guide decision-making is rare, and
contemporary constitutional analysis is more typically informed by a combination of earlier Court
decisions, traditional practices, a desire to sustain foundational principles in an evolving soci-
ety, and pragmatic considerations.
                                          SECTION VII
     The last six decades were among the most significant in the Court’s history. They saw some
of the most sustained efforts to change the Court or its decisions or both with respect to a sub-
stantial number of issues. On only a few past occasions was the Court so centrally a subject of
political debate and controversy in national life or an object of contention in presidential elec-
tions. One can doubt that the public any longer perceives the Court as an institution above
political dispute, any longer believes that the answers to difficult issues in litigation before the
Justices may be found solely in the text of the document entrusted to their keeping. While the
Court has historically enjoyed the respect of the bar and the public, a sense has arisen that the
institution is not immune from the partisan politics affecting other branches. Its decisions, how-
ever, are generally accorded uncoerced acquiescence, and its pronouncements are accepted as
authoritative, binding constructions of the constitutional instrument.
     Indeed, it can be argued that the disappearance of the myth of the absence of judicial choice
strengthens the Court as an institution to the degree that it explains and justifies the exercise
of discretion in those areas of controversy in which the Constitution does not speak clearly or
in which different sections lead to different answers. The public attitude thus established is
then better enabled to understand division within the Court and within the legal profession
generally, and all sides are therefore seen to be entitled to the respect accorded the search for
answers. Although the Court’s workload has declined of late, a significant proportion of its cases
are still “hard” cases; while hard cases need not make bad law they do in fact lead to division
among the Justices and public controversy. Increased sophistication, then, about the Court’s role
and its methods can only redound to its benefit.
