felony committed, combined with reckless indifference to human life,
is sufficient to satisfy the Enmund culpability requirement.” 146
    Limitations on Capital Punishment: Diminished Capacity.—
The Court has grappled with several cases involving application of
the death penalty to persons of diminished capacity. The first such
case involved a defendant whose competency at the time of his of-
fense, at trial, and at sentencing had not been questioned, but who
subsequently developed a mental disorder. The Court held in Ford
v. Wainwright 147 that the Eighth Amendment prohibits the state
from carrying out the death penalty on an individual who is in-
sane, and that properly raised issues of sanity at the time of execu-
tion must be determined in a proceeding satisfying the minimum
requirements of due process.148 The Court noted that execution of
the insane had been considered cruel and unusual at common law
and at the time of adoption of the Bill of Rights, and continued to
be so viewed. And, although no states purported to permit the ex-
ecution of the insane, Florida and some others left the determina-
tion to the governor. Florida’s procedures, the Court held, violated
due process because the decision was vested in the governor with-
out the defendant’s having the opportunity to be heard, the gover-
nor’s decision being based on reports of three state-appointed psy-
chiatrists.149
    In Panetti v. Quarterman,150 the Court considered two of the
issues raised, but not clearly answered, in Ford: what definition of
      146 481 U.S. 137, 158 (1987). The decision was 5–4. Justice O’Connor’s opinion

for the Court viewed a “narrow” focus on intent to kill as “a highly unsatisfactory
means of definitively distinguishing the most culpable and dangerous of murder-
ers,” id. at 157, and concluded that “reckless disregard for human life” may be held
to be “implicit in knowingly engaging in criminal activities known to carry a grave
risk of death.” Id.
      147 477 U.S. 399 (1986).
      148 There was an opinion of the Court only on the first issue: that the Eighth

Amendment creates a right not to be executed while insane. The Court’s opinion did
not attempt to define insanity; Justice Powell’s concurring opinion would have held
the prohibition applicable only for “those who are unaware of the punishment they
are about to suffer and why they are to suffer it.” 477 U.S. at 422.
      149 There was no opinion of the Court on the issue of procedural requirements.

Justice Marshall, joined by Justices Brennan, Blackmun, and Stevens, would hold
that “the ascertainment of a prisoner’s sanity . . . calls for no less stringent stan-
dards than those demanded in any other aspect of a capital proceeding.” 477 U.S. at
411–12. Concurring Justice Powell thought that due process might be met by a pro-
ceeding “far less formal than a trial,” that the state “should provide an impartial
officer or board that can receive evidence and argument from the prisoner’s coun-
sel.” Id. at 427. Concurring Justice O’Connor, joined by Justice White, emphasized
Florida’s denial of the opportunity to be heard, and did not express an opinion on
whether the state could designate the governor as decisionmaker. Thus Justice Pow-
ell’s opinion, requiring the opportunity to be heard before an impartial officer or board,
set forth the Court’s holding.
      150 127 S. Ct. 2842 (2007).
