expect from a series of opinions.77 Instead, although the Court seemed
firmly on the path to the conclusion that only criminal acts that
result in the deliberate taking of human life may be punished by
the state’s taking of human life,78 it chose several different paths
in attempting to delineate the acceptable procedural devices that
must be instituted in order that death may be constitutionally pro-
nounced and carried out. To summarize, the Court determined that
the penalty of death for deliberate murder is not per se cruel and
unusual, but that mandatory death statutes leaving the jury or trial
judge no discretion to consider the individual defendant and his crime
are cruel and unusual, and that standards and procedures may be
established for the imposition of death that would remove or miti-
gate the arbitrariness and irrationality found so significant in Fur-




     77 Justice Frankfurter once wrote of the development of the law through “the

process of litigating elucidation.” International Ass’n of Machinists v. Gonzales, 356
U.S. 617, 619 (1958). The Justices are firm in declaring that the series of death
penalty cases failed to conform to this concept. See, e.g., Chief Justice Burger, Lockett
v. Ohio, 438 U.S. 586, 602 (1978) (plurality opinion) (“The signals from this Court
have not . . . always been easy to decipher”); Justice White, id. at 622 (“The Court
has now completed its about-face since Furman”) (concurring in result); and Justice
Rehnquist, id. at 629 (dissenting) (“the Court has gone from pillar to post, with the
result that the sort of reasonable predictability upon which legislatures, trial courts,
and appellate courts must of necessity rely has been all but completely sacrificed”),
and id. at 632 (“I am frank to say that I am uncertain whether today’s opinion rep-
resents the seminal case in the exposition by this Court of the Eighth and Four-
teenth Amendments as they apply to capital punishment, or whether instead it rep-
resents the third false start in this direction within the past six years”).
     78 On crimes not involving the taking of life or the actual commission of the

killing by a defendant, see Coker v. Georgia, 433 U.S. 584 (1977) (rape of an adult
woman); Kennedy v. Louisiana, 128 S. Ct. 2461 (2008) (rape of an eight-year-old
child); Enmund v. Florida, 458 U.S. 782 (1982) (felony murder where defendant aided
and abetted a robbery during which a murder was committed but did not himself
kill, attempt to kill, or intend that a killing would take place). Compare Enmund
with Tison v. Arizona, 481 U.S. 137 (1987) (death sentence upheld where defendants
did not kill but their involvement in the events leading up to the murders was ac-
tive, recklessly indifferent, and substantial). Those cases in which a large threat,
though uneventuated, to the lives of many may have been present, as in airplane
hijackings, may constitute an exception to the Court’s narrowing of the crimes for
which capital punishment may be imposed. The federal hijacking statute, 49 U.S.C.
§ 46502, imposes the death penalty only when a death occurs during commission of
the hijacking. By contrast, the treason statute, 18 U.S.C. § 2381, permits the death
penalty in the absence of a death, and represents a situation in which great and
fatal danger might be present. But the treason statute also constitutes a crime against
the state, which may be significant. In Kennedy v. Louisiana, 128 S. Ct. 2641, 2659
(2008), in overturning a death sentence imposed for the rape of a child, the Court
wrote, “Our concern here is limited to crimes against individual persons. We do not
address, for example, crimes defining and punishing treason, espionage, terrorism,
and drug kingpin activity, which are offenses against the State.”
