of the validity of capital punishment under the Cruel and Unusual
Punishments Clause, and, to considerable surprise, the Court held
in Furman v. Georgia 70 that the death penalty, at least as adminis-
tered, violated the Eighth Amendment. There was no unifying opin-
ion of the Court in Furman; the five Justices in the majority each
approached the matter from a different angle in a separate concur-
ring opinion. Two Justices concluded that the death penalty was
“cruel and unusual” per se because the imposition of capital punish-
ment “does not comport with human dignity” 71 or because it is “mor-
ally unacceptable” and “excessive.” 72 One Justice concluded that be-
cause death is a penalty inflicted on the poor and hapless defendant
but not the affluent and socially better defendant, it violates the
implicit requirement of equality of treatment found within the Eighth
Amendment.73 Two Justices concluded that capital punishment was
both “cruel” and “unusual” because it was applied in an arbitrary,
“wanton,” and “freakish” manner 74 and so infrequently that it served
no justifying end.75
    Because only two of the Justices in Furman thought the death
penalty to be invalid in all circumstances, those who wished to re-
instate the penalty concentrated upon drafting statutes that would
correct the faults identified in the other three majority opinions.76
Enactment of death penalty statutes by 35 states following Fur-
man led to renewed litigation, but not to the elucidation one might

to impose the death penalty were determined in a unitary proceeding. Justice Har-
lan for the Court held that standards were not required because, ultimately, it was
impossible to define with any degree of specificity which defendant should live and
which die; although bifurcated proceedings might be desirable, they were not re-
quired by due process.
     70 408 U.S. 238 (1972). The change in the Court’s approach was occasioned by

the shift of Justices Stewart and White, who had voted with the majority in McGautha.
     71 408 U.S. at 257 (Justice Brennan).
     72 408 U.S. at 314 (Justice Marshall).
     73 408 U.S. at 240 (Justice Douglas).
     74 408 U.S. at 306 (Justice Stewart).
     75 408 U.S. at 310 (Justice White). The four dissenters, in four separate opin-

ions, argued with different emphases that the Constitution itself recognized capital
punishment in the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments, that the death penalty was
not “cruel and unusual” when the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments were pro-
posed and ratified, that the Court was engaging in a legislative act to strike it down
now, and that even under modern standards it could not be considered “cruel and
unusual.” Id. at 375 (Chief Justice Burger), 405 (Justice Blackmun), 414 (Justice
Powell), 465 (Justice Rehnquist). Each of the dissenters joined each of the opinions
of the others.
     76 Collectors of judicial “put downs” of colleagues should note Justice Rehnquist’s

characterization of the many expressions of faults in the system and their correc-
tion as “glossolalial.” Woodson v. North Carolina, 428 U.S. 280, 317 (1976) (dissent-
ing).
