holding of far-reaching importance.215 In Powell v. Texas,216 a ma-
jority of the Justices took the latter view of Robinson, but the re-
sult, because of one Justice’s view of the facts, was a refusal to in-
validate a conviction of an alcoholic for public drunkenness. Whether
either the Eighth Amendment or the Due Process Clauses will gov-
ern the requirement of the recognition of capacity defenses to crimi-
nal charges remains to be decided.
     The Court has gone back and forth in its acceptance of propor-
tionality analysis in non-capital cases. It appeared that such analy-
sis had been closely cabined in Rummel v. Estelle,217 upholding a
mandatory life sentence under a recidivist statute following a third
felony conviction, even though the defendant’s three nonviolent felo-
nies had netted him a total of less than $230. The Court reasoned
that the unique quality of the death penalty rendered capital cases
of limited value, and distinguished Weems on the ground that the
length of the sentence was of considerably less concern to the Court
than were the brutal prison conditions and the post-release denial
of significant rights imposed under the peculiar Philippine penal code.
Thus, in order to avoid improper judicial interference with state pe-
nal systems, Eighth Amendment judgments must be informed by
objective factors to the maximum extent possible. But when the chal-
     215 Fully applied, the principle would raise to constitutional status the concept

of mens rea, and it would thereby constitutionalize some form of insanity defense as
well as other capacity defenses. For a somewhat different approach, see Lambert v.
California, 355 U.S. 225 (1957) (due process denial for city to apply felon registra-
tion requirement to someone present in city but lacking knowledge of requirement).
More recently, this controversy has become a due process matter, with the holding
that the Due Process Clause requires the prosecution to prove beyond a reasonable
doubt the facts necessary to constitute the crime charged, Mullaney v. Wilbur, 421
U.S. 684 (1975), raising the issue of the insanity defense and other such questions.
See Rivera v. Delaware, 429 U.S. 877 (1976); Patterson v. New York, 432 U.S. 197,
202–05 (1977). In Solem v. Helm, 463 U.S. 277, 297 n.22 (1983), an Eighth Amend-
ment proportionality case, the Court suggested in dictum that life imprisonment with-
out possibility of parole of a recidivist who was an alcoholic, and all of whose crimes
had been influenced by his alcohol use, was “unlikely to advance the goals of our
criminal justice system in any substantial way.”
     216 392 U.S. 514 (1968). The plurality opinion by Justice Marshall, joined by

Justices Black and Harlan and Chief Justice Warren, interpreted Robinson as pro-
scribing only punishment of “status,” and not punishment for “acts,” and expressed
a fear that a contrary holding would impel the Court into constitutional definitions
of such matters as actus reus, mens rea, insanity, mistake, justification, and duress.
Id. at 532–37. Justice White concurred, but only because the record did not show
that the defendant was unable to stay out of public; like the dissent, Justice White
was willing to hold that if addiction as a status may not be punished neither can
the yielding to the compulsion of that addiction, whether to narcotics or to alcohol.
Id. at 548. Dissenting Justices Fortas, Douglas, Brennan, and Stewart wished to
adopt a rule that “[c]riminal penalties may not be inflicted upon a person for being
in a condition he is powerless to change.” That is, one under an irresistible compul-
sion to drink or to take narcotics may not be punished for those acts. Id. at 554,
567.
     217 445 U.S. 263 (1980).
