injury to the person and to the public.” 142 In Kennedy v. Louisiana,
the Court found that both “evolving standards of decency” and “a
national consensus” preclude the death penalty for a person who
rapes a child.143
    Applying the Coker analysis, the Court ruled in Enmund v.
Florida 144 that death is an unconstitutional penalty for felony mur-
der if the defendant did not himself kill, or attempt to take life, or
intend that anyone be killed. Although a few more states imposed
capital punishment in felony murder cases than had imposed it for
rape, nonetheless the weight was heavily against the practice, and
the evidence of jury decisions and other indicia of a modern consen-
sus also opposed the death penalty in such circumstances. More-
over, the Court determined that death was a disproportionate sen-
tence for one who neither took life nor intended to do so. Because
the death penalty is likely to deter only when murder is the result
of premeditation and deliberation, and because the justification of
retribution depends upon the degree of the defendant’s culpability,
the imposition of death upon one who participates in a crime in
which a victim is murdered by one of his confederates and not as a
result of his own intention serves neither of the purposes underly-
ing the penalty.145 In Tison v. Arizona, however, the Court eased
the “intent to kill” requirement, holding that, in keeping with an
“apparent consensus” among the states, “major participation in the



    142  433 U.S. at 598.
    143  128 S. Ct. 2641, 2649, 2653 (2008). The Court noted that, since Gregg, it
had “spent more than 32 years articulating limiting factors that channel the jury’s
discretion to avoid the death penalty’s arbitrary imposition in the case of capital
murder. Though that practice remains sound, beginning the same process for crimes
for which no one has been executed in more than 40 years would require experimen-
tation in an area where a failed experiment would result in the execution of indi-
viduals undeserving of the death penalty. Evolving standards of decency are diffi-
cult to reconcile with a regime that seeks to expand the death penalty to an area
where standards to confine its use are indefinite and obscure.” Id. at 2661.
     144 458 U.S. 782 (1982). Justice White wrote the opinion of the Court and was

joined by Justices Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, and Stevens. Justice O’Connor, with
Justices Powell and Rehnquist and Chief Justice Burger, dissented. Id. at 801. Ac-
cord, Cabana v. Bullock, 474 U.S. 376 (1986) (also holding that the proper remedy
in a habeas case is to remand for state court determination as to whether Enmund
findings have been made).
     145 Justice O’Connor thought the evidence of contemporary standards did not

support a finding that capital punishment was not appropriate in felony murder situ-
ations. 458 U.S. at 816–23. She also objected to finding the penalty disproportion-
ate, first because of the degree of participation of the defendant in the underlying
crime, id. at 823–26, but also because the Court appeared to be constitutionalizing
a standard of intent required under state law.
