The second type comprises challenges to particular sentencing prac-
tices as being categorically impermissible, but categorical restric-
tions had theretofore been limited to imposing the death penalty
on those with diminished capacity. In Graham, Justice Kennedy broke
new ground and recognized a categorical restriction on life without
parole for nonhomicide offenses by juveniles, citing considerations
and applying analysis similar to those used in his juvenile capital
punishment opinion in Roper.238 In considering objective indicia of
a national consensus on the sentence, the Graham opinion looked
beyond statutory authorization—thirty-seven states and the Dis-
trict of Columbia permitted life without parole for some juvenile
nonhomicide offenders—to actual imposition, which was rare out-
side Florida. Justice Kennedy also found support “in the fact that,
in continuing to impose life without parole sentences on juveniles
who did not commit homicide, the United States adheres to a sen-
tencing practice rejected the world over.” 239 After finding that a con-
sensus had developed against the sentencing practice at issue, Jus-
tice Kennedy expressed an independent judgment that imposing life
without parole on juveniles for nonhomicide offenses failed to serve
legitimate penological goals adequately.240 Factors in reaching this
conclusion included the severity of the sentence, the relative culpa-
bility of juveniles, and the prospect for their rehabilitation.241
     The concept of proportionality also drove Justice Kagan’s analy-
sis in Miller v. Alabama, a case questioning the imposition of man-
datory life imprisonment without parole on juveniles convicted of
homicide.242 Her analysis began by recounting the factors, stated
in Roper and Graham, that mark children as constitutionally differ-
ent from adults for purposes of sentencing: Children have dimin-
ished capacities and greater prospects for reform. Nevertheless, these
factors, even when coupled with the severity of a life without pa-
role sentence, did not lead Justice Kagan to bar life without parole
for juveniles in homicide cases categorically. Her more immediate
     238 See 543 U.S. 551 (2005). Concurring in the judgement in Graham, Chief Jus-

tice Roberts resolved the case under a proportionality test, finding the majority’s
categorical restriction to be unwise and unnecessary in Graham’s circumstances. 560
U.S. ___, No. 08–7412, slip op. (Roberts, C.J., concurring).
     239 560 U.S. ___, No. 08–7412, slip op. at 29.
     240 For a parallel discussion in Roper, see 543 U.S. 551, 568–75 (2005).
     241 In dissent, Justice Thomas, joined by Justice Scalia and, in part, by Justice

Alito, questioned both the basis and the reach of the majority opinion. In addition
to strongly objecting to adopting any categorical rule in a nonhomicide context, Jus-
tice Thomas pointedly criticized the conclusion that the legislative and judicial re-
cords established a consensus against imposing life without parole on juvenile offend-
ers in nonhomicide cases. He also disparaged the majority’s independent judgment
on the morality and justice of the sentence as wrongfully pre-empting the political
process. 560 U.S. ___, No. 08–7412, slip op. (Thomas, J., dissenting).
     242 567 U.S. ___, No. 10–9646, slip op. (2012).
