    In 1998, however, the Court injected vitality into the strictures
of the clause. “The touchstone of the constitutional inquiry under
the Excessive Fines Clause is the principle of proportionality: The
amount of the forfeiture must bear some relationship to the grav-
ity of the offense that it is designed to punish.” 37 In United States
v. Bajakajian,38 the government sought to require that a criminal
defendant charged with violating federal reporting requirements re-
garding the transportation of more than $10,000 in currency out of
the country forfeit the currency involved, which totaled $357,144.
The Court held that the forfeiture 39 in this particular case violated
the Excessive Fines Cause because the amount forfeited was “grossly
disproportionate to the gravity of defendant’s offense.” 40 In deter-
mining proportionality, the Court did not limit itself to a compari-
son of the fine amount to the proven offense, but it also considered
the particular facts of the case, the character of the defendant, and
the harm caused by the offense.41

             CRUEL AND UNUSUAL PUNISHMENTS
     During congressional consideration of the Cruel and Unusual
Punishments Clause one Member objected to “the import of [the words]
being too indefinite” and another Member said: “No cruel and un-
usual punishment is to be inflicted; it is sometimes necessary to
hang a man, villains often deserve whipping, and perhaps having
their ears cut off; but are we in the future to be prevented from
inflicting these punishments because they are cruel? If a more le-
nient mode of correcting vice and deterring others from the commis-
sion of it would be invented, it would be very prudent in the Legis-
lature to adopt it; but until we have some security that this will be
seen as punishment. The Court was apparently willing to consider any number of
factors in making this evaluation; civil forfeiture was found to be at least partially
intended as punishment, and thus limited by the clause, based on its common law
roots, its focus on culpability, and various indications in the legislative histories of
its more recent incarnations.
     37 United States v. Bajakajian, 524 U.S. 321, 334 (1998).
     38 524 U.S. 321 (1998).
     39 The Court held that a criminal forfeiture, which is imposed at the time of

sentencing, should be considered a fine, because it serves as a punishment for the
underlying crime. 524 U.S. at 328. The Court distinguished this from civil forfei-
ture, which, as an in rem proceeding against property, would generally not function
as a punishment of the criminal defendant. 524 U.S. at 330–32.
     40 524 U.S. at 334.
     41 In Bajakajian, the lower court found that the currency in question was not

derived from illegal activities, and that the defendant, who had grown up a member
of the Armenian minority in Syria, had failed to report the currency out of distrust
of the government. 524 U.S. at 325–26. The Court found it relevant that the defen-
dant did not appear to be among the class of persons for whom the statute was
designed; i.e., a money launderer or tax evader, and that the harm to the govern-
ment from the defendant’s failure to report the currency was minimal. 524 U.S. at
338.
