tence.66 Strong differences remain over such issues as the appropri-
ate framework for consideration of aggravating and mitigating
circumstances and the appropriate scope of federal review, but a
Court majority still seems committed to reducing obstacles created
by federal review of death sentences imposed under state laws that
have been upheld as constitutional.
    General Validity and Guiding Principles.—In Trop v. Dulles,
the majority refused to consider “the death penalty as an index of
the constitutional limit on punishment. Whatever the arguments may
be against capital punishment . . . the death penalty has been em-
ployed throughout our history, and, in a day when it is still widely
accepted, it cannot be said to violate the constitutional concept of
cruelty.” 67 But a coalition of civil rights and civil liberties organiza-
tions mounted a campaign against the death penalty in the 1960s,
and the Court eventually confronted the issues involved. The an-
swers were not, it is fair to say, consistent.
    A series of cases testing the means by which the death penalty
was imposed 68 culminated in what appeared to be a decisive rejec-
tion of the attack in McGautha v. California.69 Nonetheless, the Court
then agreed to hear a series of cases directly raising the question
     66 Gone too is Justice Blackmun, whose early support for capital punishment

gave way near the end of his career to a belief that the Court’s effort to reconcile
the twin goals of fairness to the individual defendant and consistency and rational-
ity of sentencing had failed, and that the death penalty “as currently administered,
is unconstitutional.” Callins v. Collins, 510 U.S. 1141, 1159 (1994) (dissenting from
a denial of certiorari and announcing that, “[f]rom this day forward, I no longer shall
tinker with the machinery of death,” id. at 1145). Justice Stevens has also con-
cluded that the death penalty violates the Eighth Amendment, but, because of his
wish “to respect precedents that remain a part of our law,” he does not constitute
an automatic vote against challenged death sentences. Baze v. Rees, 128 S. Ct. 1520,
1552 (2008) (finding the death penalty to violate the Eighth Amendment but concur-
ring with the Court plurality that Kentucky’s lethal injection protocol does not vio-
late the Eighth Amendment). In Thompson v. McNeil, 129 S. Ct. 1299 (2009), Jus-
tice Stevens dissented from a denial of certiorari where the defendant had spent 32
years on death row; Justice Stevens found “such delays . . . unacceptably cruel.” Id.
at 1300. Justice Breyer dissented separately, and Justice Thomas concurred in the
denial of certiorari.
     67 356 U.S. 86, 99 (1958).
     68 In Rudolph v. Alabama, 375 U.S. 889 (1963), Justices Goldberg, Douglas, and

Brennan, dissenting from a denial of certiorari, argued that the Court should have
heard the case to consider whether the Constitution permitted the imposition of death
“on a convicted rapist who has neither taken nor endangered human life,” and pre-
sented a line of argument questioning the general validity of the death penalty un-
der the Eighth Amendment. The Court addressed exclusion of death-scrupled jurors
in Witherspoon v. Illinois, 391 U.S. 510 (1968). Witherspoon and subsequent cases
explicating it are discussed under Sixth Amendment—Impartial Jury.
     69 402 U.S. 183 (1971). McGautha was decided in the same opinion with Crampton

v. Ohio. McGautha raised the question whether provision for imposition of the death
penalty without legislative guidance to the sentencing authority in the form of stan-
dards violated the Due Process Clause; Crampton raised the question whether due
process was violated when both the issue of guilt or innocence and the issue of whether
