       FURTHER GUARANTEES IN CRIMINAL CASES


                          EIGHTH AMENDMENT
    Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines im-
posed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted.
                                  EXCESSIVE BAIL
            “This traditional right to freedom before conviction permits the
       unhampered preparation of a defense, and serves to prevent the in-
       fliction of punishment prior to conviction. . . . Unless this right to
       bail before trial is preserved, the presumption of innocence, se-
       cured only after centuries of struggle, would lose its meaning.” 1 “The
       bail clause was lifted with slight changes from the English Bill of
       Rights Act. In England that clause has never been thought to ac-
       cord a right to bail in all cases, but merely to provide that bail shall
       not be excessive in those cases where it is proper to grant bail. When
       this clause was carried over into our Bill of Rights, nothing was
       said that indicated any different concept.” 2 These two contrasting
       views of the “excessive bail” provision, expressed by the Court in
       the same Term, reflect the ambiguity inherent in the phrase and
       the absence of evidence regarding the intent of those who drafted
       and who ratified the Eighth Amendment.3
            The history of the bail controversy in England is crucial to un-
       derstanding why the ambiguity exists.4 The Statute of Westminster
       the First of 1275 5 set forth a detailed enumeration of those of-
       fenses that were bailable and those that were not, and, though supple-
       mented by later statutes, it served for something like five and a
            1 Stack v. Boyle, 342 U.S. 1, 4 (1951). Note that, in Bell v. Wolfish, 441 U.S.

       520, 533 (1979), the Court enunciated a narrower view of the presumption of inno-
       cence, describing it as “a doctrine that allocates the burden of proof in criminal tri-
       als,” and denying that it has any “application to a determination of the rights of a
       pretrial detainee during confinement before his trial has even begun.”
            2 Carlson v. Landon, 342 U.S. 524, 545 (1952). Justice Black in dissent accused

       the Court of reducing the provision “below the level of a pious admonition” by say-
       ing in effect that “the Amendment does no more than protect a right to bail which
       Congress can grant and which Congress can take away.” Id. at 556.
            3 The only recorded comment of a Member of Congress during debate on adop-

       tion of the “excessive bail” provision was that of Mr. Livermore. “The clause seems
       to express a great deal of humanity, on which account I have no objection to it; but
       as it seems to have no meaning in it, I do not think it necessary. What is meant by
       the terms excessive bail? Who are to be judges?” 1 ANNALS OF CONGRESS 754 (1789).
            4 Still the best and most comprehensive treatment is Foote, The Coming Consti-

       tutional Crisis in Bail: I, 113 U. PA. L. REV. 959, 965–89 (1965), reprinted in C. FOOTE,
       STUDIES ON BAIL 181, 187–211 (1966).
            5 3 Edw. 1, ch. 12.
