Court grew increasingly impatient with the delays that were made
possible through procedural protections, especially those associated
with federal habeas corpus review.62 Having consistently held that
capital punishment is not inherently unconstitutional, the Court
seemed bent on clarifying and even streamlining constitutionally re-
quired procedures so that those states that choose to impose capi-
tal punishment may do so without inordinate delays. In the habeas
context, the interest in finality at first trumped a death-is-different
approach.63 Then, in In re Troy Anthony Davis,64 the Court found a
death-row convict with a claim of actual innocence to be entitled to
a District Court determination of his habeas petition. Justice Ste-
vens, in a concurring opinion joined by Justices Ginsburg and Breyer,
“refuse[d] to endorse” Justice Scalia’s reasoning (in a dissent joined
by Justice Thomas) that would read the Constitution to permit the
execution of a convict “who possesses new evidence conclusively and
definitively proving, beyond any scintilla of doubt, that he is an in-
nocent man.”
     The writ has also been restricted statutorily.65
    Changed membership on the Court has had an effect. Gone from
the Court are Justices Brennan and Marshall, whose belief that all
capital punishment constitutes cruel and unusual punishment re-
sulted in two automatic votes against any challenged death sen-

citizens also differs dramatically from any other legitimate state action. It is of vital
importance . . . that any decision to impose the death sentence be, and appear to
be, based on reason rather than caprice or emotion.”
     62 See, e.g., Barefoot v. Estelle, 463 U.S. 880, 888 (1983): “unlike a term of years,

a death sentence cannot begin to be carried out by the State while substantial legal
issues remain outstanding. Accordingly, federal courts must isolate the exceptional
cases where constitutional error requires retrial or resentencing as certainly and
swiftly as orderly procedures will permit.” See also Gomez v. United States District
Court, 503 U.S. 653 (1992) (vacating orders staying an execution, and refusing to
consider, because of “abusive delay,” a claim that “could have been brought more
than a decade ago”—that California’s method of execution (cyanide gas) constitutes
cruel and unusual punishment).
     63 In Herrera v. Collins, 506 U.S. 390, 405 (1993), the Court rejected the posi-

tion that “the fact that a death sentence has been imposed requires a different stan-
dard of review on federal habeas corpus,” and also declared that, because of “the
very disruptive effect that entertaining claims of actual innocence would have on
the need for finality in capital cases, and the enormous burden that having to retry
cases based on often stale evidence would place on the States, the threshold show-
ing for such an assumed right would necessarily be extraordinarily high.” Id. at 417.
In a subsequent part of the opinion, however, the Court assumed for the sake of
argument that “a truly persuasive demonstration of ‘actual innocence’ made after
trial would render the execution of a defendant unconstitutional,” and it imposed a
high standard for making this showing. 506 U.S. at 417–419.
     64 557 U.S. ___, No. 08–1443 (2009).
     65 See, e.g., the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, Pub. L.

104–132, 110 Stat. 1214.
