concern was that the mandatory life sentences in Miller left no room
for a sentencer to consider a juvenile offender’s special immaturity,
vulnerability, suggestibility, and the like. In Justice Kagan’s view,
a process that mandates life imprisonment without parole for juve-
nile offenders is constitutionally flawed because it forecloses any con-
sideration of the hallmark distinctions of youth in meting out soci-
ety’s severest penalties. In leading four Justices in dissent, Chief
Justice Roberts observed that most states and the Federal Govern-
ment have statutes mandating life sentences without parole for cer-
tain juvenile offenders in homicide cases, and that those mandated
sentences are commonly imposed. These sentences simply are not
“unusual,” nor does state law and practice indicate societal oppro-
brium toward them. Justice Kagan remained unconvinced, finding
the dissent’s methodology less persuasive when the issue is the pro-
cess that must be used in imposing a particular sentence as op-
posed to categorically barring a type of sentence altogether.
Prisons and Punishment
    “It is unquestioned that ‘[c]onfinement in a prison . . . is a form
of punishment subject to scrutiny under the Eighth Amendment stan-
dards.’ ” 243 “Conditions [in prison] must not involve the wanton and
unnecessary infliction of pain, nor may they be grossly dispropor-
tionate to the severity of the crime warranting imprisonment. . . .
Conditions . . . , alone or in combination, may deprive inmates of
the minimal civilized measure of life’s necessities. . . . But condi-
tions that cannot be said to be cruel and unusual under contempo-
rary standards are not unconstitutional. To the extent that such con-
ditions are restrictive and even harsh, they are part of the penalty
that criminal offenders pay for their offenses against society.” 244 These
general principles apply both to the treatment of individuals 245 and
to the creation or maintenance of prison conditions that are inhu-
     243 Rhodes v. Chapman, 452 U.S. 337, 345 (1981) (quoting Hutto v. Finney, 437

U.S. 678, 685 (1978)).
     244 452 U.S. at 347. See also Overton v. Bazzetta, 539 U.S. 126, 137 (2003) (re-

jecting a challenge to a two-year withdrawal of visitation as punishment for prison-
ers who commit multiple substance abuse violations, characterizing the practice as
“not a dramatic departure from accepted standards for conditions of confinement,”
but indicating that a permanent ban “would present different considerations”).
     245 E.g., Jackson v. Bishop, 404 F.2d 571 (8th Cir. 1968) (beating prisoner with

leather strap violates Eighth Amendment); Estelle v. Gamble, 429 U.S. 97 (1976)
(deliberate medical neglect of a prisoner violates Eighth Amendment); Helling v. McKin-
ney, 509 U.S. 25 (1993) (prisoner who alleged exposure to secondhand “environmen-
tal” tobacco smoke stated a cause of action under the Eighth Amendment). In Erickson
v. Pardus, 551 U.S. 89 (2007) (per curiam), the Court overturned a lower court’s
dismissal, on procedural grounds, of a prisoner’s claim of having been denied medi-
cal treatment, with life-threatening consequences. Justice Thomas, however, dis-
sented on the ground “that the Eighth Amendment’s prohibition on cruel and un-
usual punishment historically concerned only injuries relating to a criminal sentence. . . .
