preserve the “basic concept . . . [of] the dignity of man” by assur-
ing that the power to impose punishment is “exercised within the
limits of civilized standards.” 58

Capital Punishment
    The Court’s 1972 decision in Furman v. Georgia,59 finding con-
stitutional deficiencies in the manner in which the death penalty
was arrived at but not holding the death penalty unconstitutional
per se, was a watershed in capital punishment jurisprudence. In
the long run the ruling may have had only minor effect in determin-
ing who is sentenced to death and who is actually executed, but it
had the indisputable effect of constitutionalizing capital sentencing
law and of involving federal courts in extensive review of capital
sentences.60 Prior to 1972, constitutional law governing capital pun-
ishment was relatively simple and straightforward. Capital punish-
ment was constitutional, and there were few grounds for constitu-
tional review. Furman and the five 1976 follow-up cases that reviewed
state laws revised in light of Furman reaffirmed the constitutional-
ity of capital punishment per se, but also opened up several av-
enues for constitutional review. Since 1976, the Court has issued a
welter of decisions attempting to apply and reconcile the some-
times conflicting principles it had announced: that sentencing dis-
cretion must be confined through application of specific guidelines
that narrow and define the category of death-eligible defendants and
thereby prevent arbitrary imposition of the death penalty, but that
jury discretion must also be preserved in order to weigh the miti-
gating circumstances of individual defendants who fall within the
death-eligible class.
    While the Court continues to tinker with application of these
principles, it also has taken steps to attempt to reduce the many
procedural and substantive opportunities for delay and defeat of the
carrying out of death sentences, and to give the states more leeway
in administering capital sentencing. The early post-Furman stage
involving creation of procedural protections for capital defendants
that were premised on a “death is different” rationale.61 Later, the
    58 356 U.S. at 99–100. The action of prison guards in handcuffing a prisoner to

a hitching post for long periods of time violated basic human dignity and consti-
tuted “gratuitous infliction of ‘wanton and unnecessary pain’ ” prohibited by the clause.
Hope v. Pelzer, 536 U.S. 730, 738 (2002).
    59 408 U.S. 238 (1972).
    60 See Carol S. Steiker and Jordan M. Steiker, Sober Second Thoughts: Reflec-

tions on Two Decades of Constitutional Regulation of Capital Punishment, 109 HARV.
L. REV. 355 (1995).
    61 See, e.g., Gardner v. Florida, 430 U.S. 349, 357–58 (1977): “From the point of

view of the defendant, [death] is different in both its severity and its finality. From
the point of view of society, the action of the sovereign in taking the life of one of its
