sult. The plurality found that, although “subjecting individuals to a
risk of future harm—not simply actually inflicting pain—can qualify
as cruel and unusual punishment . . . , the conditions presenting
the risk must be ‘sure or very likely to cause serious illness and
needless suffering,’ and give rise to ‘sufficiently imminent dangers.’
. . . [T]o prevail on such a claim there must be a ‘substantial risk
of serious harm,’ an ‘objectively intolerable risk of harm’ that pre-
vents prison officials from pleading that they were ‘subjectively blame-
less for purposes of the Eighth Amendment.’ ” 55 The presence of an
“unnecessary” or “untoward” risk of harm that can be eliminated
by adopting alternative procedures, the plurality found, is insuffi-
cient to render the three-drug protocol unconstitutional. Instead, for
the protocol to be unconstitutional, an “alternative procedure must
be feasible, readily implemented, and in fact significantly reduce a
substantial risk of severe pain.” 56
     Divestiture of the citizenship of a natural born citizen was held
to be cruel and unusual punishment in Trop v. Dulles.57 The Court
viewed divestiture as a penalty more cruel and “more primitive than
torture,” because it entailed statelessness or “the total destruction
of the individual’s status in organized society.” “The question is whether
[a] penalty subjects the individual to a fate forbidden by the prin-
ciple of civilized treatment guaranteed by the Eighth Amendment.”
A punishment must be examined “in light of the basic prohibition
against inhuman treatment,” and the Amendment was intended to
     55 128 S. Ct. at 1530–31. The plurality opinion was written by Chief Justice Rob-

erts and joined by Justices Kennedy and Alito. There were five concurring opinions
(one of them by Justice Alito) and a dissenting opinion by Justice Ginsburg, joined
by Justice Souter.
     56 128 S. Ct. at 1532. Justice Thomas, joined by Justice Scalia, would have found

that “a method of execution violates the Eighth Amendment only if it is deliberately
designed to inflict pain.” Id. at 1556. Justice Ginsburg, joined by Justice Souter in
dissent, would have found that a method of execution violates the Eighth Amend-
ment if it “poses an untoward, readily avoidable risk of inflicting severe and unnec-
essary pain.” Id. at 1567. Justice Breyer agreed with the Eighth Amendment stan-
dard that Justice Ginsburg would have applied, but he concurred with the plurality
because he could not find sufficient evidence that the three-drug protocol violated
that standard. Id. at 1563. Thus, while Justices Scalia and Thomas’ standard would
result in Eighth Amendment violations in fewer situations than the plurality’s would,
Justices Ginsburg, Souter, and Breyer’s standard would result in violations in more.
Justice Stevens remained neutral as to the appropriate standard. Although conclud-
ing that capital punishment itself violates the Eighth Amendment, he found that,
under existing precedents, “whether as interpreted by the Chief Justice or Justice
Ginsburg,” the petitioners failed to prove that the protocol violated the Eighth Amend-
ment. Id. at 1552.
     57 356 U.S. 86 (1958). Again the Court was divided. Four Justices joined the

plurality opinion while Justice Brennan concurred on the ground that the requisite
relation between the severity of the penalty and legitimate purpose under the war
power was not apparent. Id. at 114. Four Justices dissented, denying that denation-
alization was a punishment and arguing that instead it was merely a means by which
Congress regulated discipline in the armed forces. Id. at 121, 124–27.
