ing that “victim impact statements” are not barred from evidence
by the Eighth Amendment.132 “A State may legitimately conclude
that evidence about the victim and about the impact of the murder
on the victim’s family is relevant to the jury’s decision as to whether
or not the death penalty should be imposed.” 133 In the view of the
Court majority, admissibility of victim impact evidence was neces-
sary in order to restore balance to capital sentencing. Exclusion of
such evidence had “unfairly weighted the scales in a capital trial;
while virtually no limits are placed on the relevant mitigating evi-
dence a capital defendant may introduce concerning his own circum-
stances, the State is barred from either offering ‘a glimpse of the
life’ which a defendant ‘chose to extinguish,’ or demonstrating the
loss to the victim’s family and to society which has resulted from
the defendant’s homicide.” 134
     Limitations on Capital Punishment: Proportionality.—
The Court has also considered whether, based on the nature of the
underlying offense (or, as explored in the next topic, the capacity of
the defendant), the imposition of capital punishment may be inap-
propriate in particular cases. “[T]he Eighth Amendment’s protec-
tion against excessive or cruel and unusual punishments flows from
the basic ‘precept of justice that punishment for [a] crime should
be graduated and proportioned to [the] offense.’ Whether this re-
quirement has been fulfilled is determined not by the standards that
prevailed when the Eighth Amendment was adopted in 1791 but
by the norms that ‘currently prevail.’ The Amendment ‘draw[s] its
meaning from the evolving standards of decency that mark the prog-
ress of a maturing society.’ ” 135 However, the “Court has . . . made
it clear that ‘[t]he Eighth Amendment is not a ratchet, whereby a

also South Carolina v. Gathers, 490 U.S. 805 (1989), holding that a prosecutor’s ex-
tensive comments extolling the personal characteristics of a murder victim can in-
validate a death sentence when the victim’s character is unrelated to the circum-
stances of the crime.
     132 Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U.S. 808 (1991). “In the event that evidence is intro-

duced that is so unduly prejudicial that it renders the trial fundamentally unfair,
the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment provides a mechanism for
relief,” Chief Justice Rehnquist explained for the Court. Id. at 825. Justices White,
O’Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, and Souter joined in that opinion. Justices Marshall,
Blackmun, and Stevens dissented.
     133 501 U.S. at 827. Overruling of Booth may have been unnecessary in Payne,

because the principal “victim impact” evidence introduced involved trauma to a sur-
viving victim of attempted murder who had been stabbed at the same time his mother
and sister had been murdered and who had apparently witnessed those murders;
this evidence could have qualified as “admissible because . . . relate[d] directly to
the circumstances of the crime.” Booth, 482 U.S. at 507 n.10. Gathers was directly
at issue in Payne because of the prosecutor’s references to effects on family mem-
bers not present at the crime.
     134 501 U.S. at 822 (citation omitted).
     135 Kennedy v. Louisiana, 128 S. Ct. 2641, 2649 (2008) (citations omitted).
