and the harshness of the penalty; (ii) the sentences imposed on other
criminals in the same jurisdiction; and (iii) the sentences imposed
for commission of the same crime in other jurisdictions.” 225 Mea-
sured by these criteria, Helm’s sentence was cruel and unusual. His
crime was relatively minor, yet life imprisonment without possibil-
ity for parole was the harshest penalty possible in South Dakota,
reserved for such other offenses as murder, manslaughter, kidnap-
ing, and arson. In only one other state could he have received so
harsh a sentence, and in no other state was it mandated.226
    The Court remained closely divided in holding in Harmelin v.
Michigan 227 that a mandatory term of life imprisonment without
possibility of parole was not cruel and unusual as applied to the
crime of possession of more than 650 grams of cocaine. There was
an opinion of the Court only on the issue of the mandatory nature
of the penalty, the Court rejecting an argument that sentencers in
non-capital cases must be allowed to hear mitigating evidence.228
As to the length of sentence, three majority Justices—Kennedy,
O’Connor, and Souter—would recognize a narrow proportionality prin-
ciple, but considered Harmelin’s crime severe and by no means grossly
disproportionate to the penalty imposed.229

    225  463 U.S. at 292.
    226  For a suggestion that Eighth Amendment proportionality analysis may limit
the severity of punishment possible for prohibited private and consensual homo-
sexual conduct, see Justice Powell’s concurring opinion in Bowers v. Hardwick, 478
U.S. 186, 197 (1986).
     227 501 U.S. 957 (1991).
     228 “Severe, mandatory penalties may be cruel, but they are not unusual in the

constitutional sense.” 501 U.S. at 994. The Court’s opinion, written by Justice Scalia,
then elaborated an understanding of “unusual”—set forth elsewhere in a part of his
opinion subscribed to only by Chief Justice Rehnquist—that denies the possibility of
proportionality review altogether. Mandatory penalties are not unusual in the con-
stitutional sense because they have “been employed in various form throughout our
Nation’s history.” This is an application of Justice Scalia’s belief that cruelty and
unusualness are to be determined solely by reference to the punishment at issue,
and without reference to the crime for which it is imposed. See id. at 975–78 (not
opinion of Court—only Chief Justice Rehnquist joined this portion of the opinion).
Because a majority of other Justices indicated in the same case that they do recog-
nize at least a narrow proportionality principle (see id. at 996 (Justices Kennedy,
O’Connor, and Souter concurring); id. at 1009 (Justices White, Blackmun, and Ste-
vens dissenting); id. at 1027 (Justice Marshall dissenting)), the fact that three of
those Justices (Kennedy, O’Connor, and Souter) joined Justice Scalia’s opinion on
mandatory penalties should probably not be read as representing agreement with
Justice Scalia’s general approach to proportionality.
     229 Because of the “serious nature” of the crime, the three-Justice plurality as-

serted that there was no need to apply the other Solem factors comparing the sen-
tence to sentences imposed for other crimes in Michigan, and to sentences imposed
for the same crime in other jurisdictions. 501 U.S. at 1004. Dissenting Justice White,
joined by Justices Blackmun and Stevens (Justice Marshall also expressed agree-
ment on this and most other points, id. at 1027), asserted that Justice Kennedy’s
approach would “eviscerate” Solem. Id. at 1018.
