                            RESERVED POWERS


                           TENTH AMENDMENT
     The powers not delegated to the United States by the Con-
stitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the
States respectively, or to the people.
                                     RESERVED POWERS

        Scope and Purpose
             “The Tenth Amendment was intended to confirm the understand-
        ing of the people at the time the Constitution was adopted, that
        powers not granted to the United States were reserved to the States
        or to the people. It added nothing to the instrument as originally
        ratified.” 1 “The amendment states but a truism that all is retained
        which has not been surrendered. There is nothing in the history of
        its adoption to suggest that it was more than declaratory of the re-
        lationship between the national and state governments as it had
        been established by the Constitution before the amendment or that
        its purpose was other than to allay fears that the new national gov-
        ernment might seek to exercise powers not granted, and that the
        states might not be able to exercise fully their reserved powers.” 2
        That this provision was not conceived to be a yardstick for measur-
        ing the powers granted to the Federal Government or reserved to
        the states was firmly settled by the refusal of both Houses of Con-
        gress to insert the word “expressly” before the word “delegated,” 3
        and was confirmed by Madison’s remarks in the course of the de-
        bate, which took place while the proposed amendment was pend-
        ing, concerning Hamilton’s plan to establish a national bank. “Inter-
        ference with the power of the States was no constitutional criterion
        of the power of Congress. If the power was not given, Congress could
            1 United States v. Sprague, 282 U.S. 716, 733 (1931).
            2 United States v. Darby, 312 U.S. 100, 124 (1941). “While the Tenth Amend-
        ment has been characterized as a ‘truism,’ stating merely that ‘all is retained which
        has not been surrendered,’ [citing Darby], it is not without significance. The Amend-
        ment expressly declares the constitutional policy that Congress may not exercise power
        in a fashion that impairs the States’ integrity or their ability to function effectively
        in a federal system.” Fry v. United States, 421 U.S. 542, 547 n.7 (1975). This policy
        was effectuated, at least for a time, in National League of Cities v. Usery, 426 U.S.
        833 (1976).
            3 ANNALS OF CONGRESS 767–68 (1789) (defeated in House 17 to 32); 2 B. SCHWARTZ,

        THE BILL OF RIGHTS: A DOCUMENTARY HISTORY 1150–51 (1971) (defeated in Senate by un-
        recorded vote).
