not exercise it; if given, they might exercise it, although it should
interfere with the laws, or even the Constitutions of the States.” 4
Nevertheless, for approximately a century, from the death of Mar-
shall until 1937, the Tenth Amendment was frequently invoked to
curtail powers expressly granted to Congress, notably the powers
to regulate commerce, to enforce the Fourteenth Amendment, and
to lay and collect taxes.
    In McCulloch v. Maryland,5 Marshall rejected the proffer of a
Tenth Amendment objection and offered instead an expansive inter-
pretation of the necessary and proper clause 6 to counter the argu-
ment. The counsel for the State of Maryland cited fears of oppo-
nents of ratification of the Constitution about the possible swallowing
up of states’ rights and referred to the Tenth Amendment to allay
these apprehensions, all in support of his claim that the power to
create corporations was reserved by that amendment to the states.7
Stressing the fact that the amendment, unlike the cognate section
of the Articles of Confederation, omitted the word “expressly” as a
qualification of granted powers, Marshall declared that its effect was
to leave the question “whether the particular power which may be-
come the subject of contest has been delegated to the one govern-
ment, or prohibited to the other, to depend upon a fair construction
of the whole instrument.” 8

Effect of Provision on Federal Powers
    Federal Taxing Power.—Not until after the Civil War was the
idea that the reserved powers of the states comprise an indepen-
dent qualification of otherwise constitutional acts of the Federal Gov-
ernment actually applied to nullify, in part, an act of Congress. This
result was first reached in a tax case, Collector v. Day.9 Holding
that a national income tax, in itself valid, could not be constitution-
ally levied upon the official salaries of state officers, Justice Nelson
made the sweeping statement that “the States within the limits of
their powers not granted, or, in the language of the Tenth Amend-
ment, ‘reserved,’ are as independent of the general government as
that government within its sphere is independent of the States.” 10
        4 2 ANNALS OF CONGRESS 1897 (1791).
        5 17 U.S. (4 Wheat.) 316 (1819).
        6 See discussion under “Coefficient or Elastic Clause,” supra.
        7 McCulloch v. Maryland, 17 U.S. (4 Wheat.) 316, 372 (1819) (argument of coun-

sel).
    8 17 U.S. at 406. “From the beginning and for many years the amendment has

been construed as not depriving the national government of authority to resort to
all means for the exercise of a granted power which are appropriate and plainly
adapted to the permitted end.” United States v. Darby, 312 U.S. 100, 124 (1941).
    9 78 U.S. (11 Wall.) 113 (1871).
    10 78 U.S. at 124.
