tional system,” the Court held that application of Fair Labor Stan-
dards Act minimum wage and overtime provisions to state employ-
ment does not require identification of these “affirmative limits.” 65
In sum, the Court in Garcia seems to have said that most but not
necessarily all disputes over the effects on state sovereignty of fed-
eral commerce power legislation are to be considered political ques-
tions. What it would take for legislation to so threaten the “special
and specific position” that states occupy in the constitutional sys-
tem as to require judicial rather than political resolution was not
delineated.
    The first indication was that it would take a very unusual case
indeed. In South Carolina v. Baker, the Court expansively inter-
preted Garcia as meaning that there must be an allegation of “some
extraordinary defects in the national political process” before the
Court will apply substantive judicial review standards to claims that
Congress has regulated state activities in violation of the Tenth Amend-
ment.66 A claim that Congress acted on incomplete information would
not suffice, the Court noting that South Carolina had “not even al-
leged that it was deprived of any right to participate in the na-
tional political process or that it was singled out in a way that left
it politically isolated and powerless.” 67 Thus, the general rule was
that “limits on Congress’s authority to regulate state activities . . .
are structural, not substantive—i.e., that States must find their pro-
tection from congressional regulation through the national political
process, not through judicially defined spheres of unregulable state
activity.” 68
    Later indications were that the Court may have been looking
for ways to back off from Garcia. One device was to apply a “clear
statement” rule requiring unambiguous statement of congressional
intent to displace state authority. After noting the serious constitu-
tional issues that would be raised by interpreting the Age Discrimi-
nation in Employment Act to apply to appointed state judges, the
Court in Gregory v. Ashcroft 69 explained that, because Garcia “con-
    65  469 U.S. at 556.
    66  485 U.S. 505, 512 (1988). Justice Scalia, in a concurring opinion, objected to
this language as departing from the Court’s assertion in Garcia that the “constitu-
tional structure” imposes some affirmative limits on congressional action. Id. at 528.
     67 485 U.S. at 513.
     68 485 U.S. at 512.
     69 501 U.S. 452 (1991). The Court left no doubt that it considered the constitu-

tional issue serious. “[T]he authority of the people of the States to determine the
qualifications of their most important government officials . . . is an authority that
lies at ‘the heart of representative government’ [and] is a power reserved to the States
under the Tenth Amendment and guaranteed them by [the Guarantee Clause].” Id.
at 463. In the latter context the Court’s opinion by Justice O’Connor cited Merritt,
The Guarantee Clause and State Autonomy: Federalism for a Third Century, 88 COLUM.
