political unrest in Rhode Island), considered the claims of two com-
peting factions vying to be declared the lawful government of Rhode
Island.617 Chief Justice Taney, for the Court, began by saying that
the answer was primarily a matter of state law that had been de-
cided in favor of one faction by the state courts.618 Insofar as the
Federal Constitution had anything to say on the subject, the Chief
Justice continued, that was embodied in the clause empowering the
United States to guarantee to every state a republican form of gov-
ernment,619 and this clause committed the determination of that is-
sue to Congress.
    “Under this article of the Constitution it rests with Congress to
decide what government is the established one in a State. For as
the United States guarantee to each State a republican govern-
ment, Congress must necessarily decide what government is estab-
lished in the State before it can determine whether it is republican
or not. And when the senators and representatives of a State are
admitted into the councils of the Union, the authority of the govern-
ment under which they are appointed, as well as its republican char-
acter, is recognized by the proper constitutional authority. And its
decision is binding on every other department of the government,
and could not be questioned in a judicial tribunal.” 620 Here, the con-
test had not proceeded to a point where Congress had made a deci-
sion, “[y]et the right to decide is placed there, and not in the courts.” 621
    Moreover, in effectuating the provision in the same clause that
the United States should protect states against domestic violence,
Congress had vested discretion in the President to use troops to pro-
tect a state government upon the application of the legislature or
the governor. Before he could act upon the application of a legisla-
ture or a governor, the President “must determine what body of men
constitute the legislature, and who is the governor . . . .” No court
could review the President’s exercise of discretion in this respect;
no court could recognize as legitimate a group vying against the
group recognized by the President as the lawful government.622 Al-
though the President had not actually called out the militia in Rhode
Island, he had pledged support to one of the competing govern-
ments, and this pledge of military assistance if it were needed had

    617 Cf. Baker v. Carr, 369 U.S. 186, 218–22 (1962); id. at 292–97 (Justice Frank-

furter dissenting).
    618 Luther, 48 U.S. (7 How.) at 40.
    619 48 U.S. at 42 (citing Article IV, § 4).
    620 48 U.S. at 42.
    621 Id.
    622 48 U.S. at 43.
