not bar its review of the challenge indicates the narrowness of ap-
plication of the doctrine in its present state. Taking Justice Bren-
nan’s formulation in Baker of the factors that go to make up a po-
litical question,660 Chief Justice Warren determined that the only
critical one in this case was whether there was a “textually demon-
strable constitutional commitment” to the House to determine in
its sole discretion the qualifications of members.661
    In order to determine whether there was a textual commit-
ment, the Court reviewed the Constitution, the Convention proceed-
ings, and English and United States legislative practice to ascer-
tain what power had been conferred on the House to judge the
qualifications of its members; finding that the Constitution vested
the House with power only to look at the qualifications of age, resi-
dency, and citizenship, the Court thus decided that in passing on
Powell’s conduct and character the House had exceeded the powers
committed to it and thus judicial review was not barred by this fac-
tor of the political question doctrine.662 Although this approach ac-
cords with the “classicist” theory of judicial review,663 it circum-
scribes the political question doctrine severely, inasmuch as all
constitutional questions turn on whether a governmental body has
exceeded its specified powers, a determination the Court tradition-
ally makes, whereas traditionally the doctrine precluded the Court
from inquiring whether the governmental body had exceeded its pow-
ers. In short, the political question consideration may now be one
on the merits rather than a decision not to decide.
    Chief Justice Warren disposed of the other factors present in
political question cases in slightly more than a page. Because reso-
lution of the question turned on an interpretation of the Constitu-
tion, a judicial function which must sometimes be exercised “at vari-
ance with the construction given the document by another branch,”
there was no lack of respect shown another branch. Nor, because
the Court is the “ultimate interpreter of the Constitution,” will there
be “multifarious pronouncements by various departments on one ques-
    660 Baker v. Carr, 369 U.S. 186, 217 (1962).
    661 395 U.S. at 319.
    662 395 U.S. at 519–47. The Court noted, however, that even if this conclusion

had not been reached from unambiguous evidence, the result would have followed
from other considerations. Id. at 547–48.
    663 See H. Wechsler, supra at 11–12. Professor Wechsler believed that congres-

sional decisions about seating members were immune to review. Id. Chief Justice
Warren noted that “federal courts might still be barred by the political question doc-
trine from reviewing the House’s factual determination that a member did not meet
one of the standing qualifications. This is an issue not presented in this case and
we express no view as to its resolution.” Powell v. McCormack, 395 U.S. 486, 521
n.42 (1969). See also id. at 507 n.27 (reservation on limitations that might exist on
Congress’s power to expel or otherwise punish a sitting member).
