shall’s achievement that, in doubtful circumstances and an awk-
ward position, he carried the day for the device, which, though ques-
tioned, has expanded and become solidified at the core of constitutional
jurisprudence.
    Marbury v. Madison.—Chief Justice Marshall’s argument for
judicial review of congressional acts in Marbury v. Madison 688 had
been largely anticipated by Hamilton.689 Hamilton had written, for
example: “The interpretation of the laws is the proper and peculiar
province of the courts. A constitution, is, in fact, and must be re-
garded by the judges, as a fundamental law. It therefore belongs to
them to ascertain its meaning, as well as the meaning of any par-
ticular act proceeding from the legislative body. If there should hap-
pen to be an irreconcilable variance between two, that which has
the superior obligation and validity ought, of course, to be pre-
ferred; or, in other words, the constitution ought to be preferred to
the statute, the intention of the people to the intention of their
agents.” 690
     At the time of the change of administration from Adams to Jef-
ferson, several commissions of appointment to office had been signed
but not delivered and were withheld on Jefferson’s express instruc-
tion. Marbury sought to compel the delivery of his commission by
seeking a writ of mandamus in the Supreme Court in the exercise
of its original jurisdiction against Secretary of State Madison. Ju-
risdiction was based on § 13 of the Judiciary Act of 1789,691 which
Marbury, and ultimately the Supreme Court, interpreted to autho-
rize the Court to issue writs of mandamus in suits in its original
jurisdiction.692 Though deciding all the other issues in Marbury’s
favor, the Chief Justice wound up concluding that the § 13 authori-


    688  5 U.S. (1 Cr.) 137 (1803).
    689  THE FEDERALIST, Nos. 78 and 81 (J. Cooke ed. 1961), 521–530, 541–552.
     690 Id., No. at 78, 525.
     691 1 Stat. 73, 80.
     692 The section first denominated the original jurisdiction of the Court and then

described the Court’s appellate jurisdiction. Following and indeed attached to the
sentence on appellate jurisdiction, being separated by a semicolon, is the language
saying “and shall have power to issue . . . writs of mandamus, in cases warranted
by the principles and usages of law, to any courts appointed, or persons holding of-
fice, under the authority of the United States.” The Chief Justice could easily have
interpreted the authority to have been granted only in cases under appellate juris-
diction or as authority conferred in cases under both original and appellate jurisdic-
tion when the cases are otherwise appropriate for one jurisdiction or the other. Tex-
tually, the section does not compel a reading that Congress was conferring on the
Court an original jurisdiction to issue writs of mandamus per se.
