zation was an attempt by Congress to expand the Court’s original
jurisdiction beyond the constitutional prescription and was there-
fore void.693
    “The question, whether an act, repugnant to the constitution,
can become the law of the land, is a question deeply interesting to
the United States,” Marshall began his discussion of this final phase
of the case, “but, happily, not of an intricacy proportioned to its in-
terest.” 694 First, Marshall recognized certain fundamental prin-
ciples. The people had come together to establish a government. They
provided for its organization and assigned to its various depart-
ments their powers and established certain limits not to be trans-
gressed by those departments. The limits were expressed in a writ-
ten constitution, which would serve no purpose “if these limits may,
at any time, be passed by those intended to be restrained.” Be-
cause the Constitution is “a superior paramount law, unchangeable
by ordinary means, . . . a legislative act contrary to the constitu-
tion is not law.” 695 “If an act of the legislature, repugnant to the
constitution, is void, does it, notwithstanding its invalidity, bind the
courts, and oblige them to give it effect?” The answer, thought the
Chief Justice, was obvious. “It is emphatically the province and duty
of the judicial department to say what the law is. Those who apply
the rule to particular cases, must of necessity expound and inter-
pret that rule. If two laws conflict with each other, the courts must
decide on the operation of each.” 696
    “So if a law be in opposition to the constitution; if both the law
and the constitution apply to a particular case, so that the court
must either decide that case conformably to the law, disregarding
the constitution; or conformably to the constitution, disregarding the
law; the court must determine which of these conflicting rules gov-
erns the case. This is of the very essence of judicial duty.” 697
    “If, then, the courts are to regard the constitution, and the con-
stitution is superior to any ordinary act of the legislature, the con-
stitution, and not such ordinary act, must govern the case to which

     693 Marbury v. Madison, 5 U.S. (1 Cr.) 137, 173–180 (1803). For a classic treat-

ment of Marbury, see Van Alstyne, A Critical Guide to Marbury v. Madison, 1969
DUKE L. J. 1.
     694 5 U.S. at 176. One critic has written that by this question Marshall “had

already begged the question-in-chief, which was not whether an act repugnant to
the Constitution could stand, but who should be empowered to decide that the act
is repugnant.” A. Bickel, supra at 3. Marshall, however, soon reached this question,
though more by way of assertion than argument. 5 U.S. (1 Cr.) at 177–78.
     695 5 U.S. at 176–77.
     696 5 U.S. at 177.
     697 5 U.S. at 178.
