fect the nation, as to require that words which import this power
should be restricted by a forced construction.” 712

Limitations on the Exercise of Judicial Review
    Constitutional Interpretation.—Under a written constitu-
tion, which is law and is binding on government, the practice of
judicial review raises questions of the relationship between consti-
tutional interpretation and the Constitution—the law that is con-
strued. The legitimacy of construction by an unelected entity in a
republican or democratic system becomes an issue whenever the con-
struction is controversial, as it frequently is. Full consideration would
carry us far afield, in view of the immense corpus of writing with
respect to the proper mode of interpretation during this period.
    Scholarly writing has identified six forms of constitutional argu-
ment or construction that may be used by courts or others in decid-
ing a constitutional issue.713 These are (1) historical, (2) textual, (3)
structural, (4) doctrinal, (5) ethical, and (6) prudential. The histori-
cal argument is largely, though not exclusively, associated with the
theory of original intent or original understanding, under which con-
stitutional and legal interpretation is limited to attempting to dis-
cern the original meaning of the words being construed as that mean-
ing is revealed in the intentions of those who created the law or
the constitutional provision in question. The textual argument, closely
associated in many ways to the doctrine of original intent, con-
cerns whether the judiciary or another is bound by the text of the
Constitution and the intentions revealed by that language, or whether
it may go beyond the four corners of the constitutional document to
ascertain the meaning, a dispute encumbered by the awkward con-

     712 19 U.S. at 422–23. Justice Story traversed much of the same ground in Mar-

tin v. Hunter’s Lessee, 14 U.S. (1 Wheat.) 304 (1816). In Ableman v. Booth, 62 U.S.
(21 How.) 506 (1859), the Wisconsin Supreme Court had declared an act of Congress
invalid and disregarded a writ of error from the Supreme Court, raising again the
Virginia arguments. Chief Justice Taney emphatically rebuked the assertions on grounds
both of dual sovereignty and national supremacy. His emphasis on the indispensabil-
ity of the federal judicial power to maintain national supremacy, to protect the states
from national encroachments, and to make the Constitution and laws of the United
States uniform all combine to enhance the federal judicial power to a degree per-
haps beyond that envisaged even by Story and Marshall. As late as Williams v. Bruffy,
102 U.S. 248 (1880), the concepts were again thrashed out with the refusal of a
Virginia court to enforce a mandate of the Supreme Court. See also Cooper v. Aaron,
358 U.S. 1 (1958).
     713 The six forms, or “modalities” as he refers to them, are drawn from P. BOB-

BITT, CONSTITUTIONAL FATE: THEORY OF THE CONSTITUTION (1982); P. BOBBITT, CONSTITUTIONAL
INTERPRETATION (1991). Of course, other scholars may have different categories, but
these largely overlap these six forms. E.g., Fallon, A Constructivist Coherence Theory
of Constitutional Interpretation, 100 HARV. L. REV. 1189 (1987); Post, Theories of Con-
stitutional Interpretation, in LAW AND THE ORDER OF CULTURE 13–41 (R. Post ed., 1991).
