not make this case nonjusticiable. “[T]he fact that one institution
of Government has mechanisms available to guard against incur-
sions into its power by other governmental institutions does not re-
quire that the Judiciary remove itself from the controversy by label-
ing the issue a political question.” 672
    The Court also rejected the contention that, because the case
did not involve a matter of individual rights, it ought not be adju-
dicated. Political questions are not restricted to one kind of claim,
but the Court frequently has decided separation-of-power cases brought
by people in their individual capacities. Moreover, the allocation of
powers within a branch, just as the separation of powers among
branches, is designed to safeguard liberty.673 Finally, the Court was
sanguine that it could develop “judicially manageable standards” for
disposing of Origination Clause cases, and, thus, it did not view the
issue as political in that context.674
     In Zivotosky v. Clinton,675 the Court declined to find a political
question where a citizen born in Jerusalem sought, pursuant to fed-
eral statute, to have “Israel” listed on his passport as his place of
birth, the Executive Branch having declined to recognize Israeli sov-
ereignly over that city. Justice Roberts, for the Court, failed to even
acknowledge the numerous factors set forth in Justice Brennan’s
Baker opinion save two—whether there is a textually demon-
strable commitment of the issue to another department or a lack of
judicially discoverable and manageable standards for resolving it.676
The Court noted that while the decision as whether or not to recog-
nized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel might be exclusively the
province of the Executive Branch, there is “no exclusive commit-
ment to the Executive of the power to determine the constitutional-
ity of a statute,” 677 such as whether Congress is encroaching on Presi-
dential powers. Similarly, this latter question, while perhaps a difficult
one, is amenable to the type of separation of powers “standards”
used by the Court in other separation of powers cases.
    In short, the political question doctrine may not be moribund,
but it does seem applicable to a very narrow class of cases. Signifi-
cantly, the Court made no mention of the doctrine when it resolved
issues arising from Florida’s recount of votes in the closely con-

    672 495 U.S. at 393.
    673 495 U.S. at 393–95.
    674 495 U.S. at 395–96.
    675 566 U.S. ___, No. 10–699, slip op. (2010).
    676 This left it to Justice Sotomayor and Justice Breyer to raise and address the

other considerations, respectively, in concurrence and dissent.
    677 566 U.S. ___, No. 10–699, slip op. at 8.
