pute capable of judicial resolution”; that is, his continuing interest
adequately assures that “sharply presented issues” are placed be-
fore the court “in a concrete factual setting” with “self-interested
parties vigorously advocating opposing positions.” 574
     The immediate effect of these cases was that litigation in which
class actions are properly certified or in which they should have
been certified would rarely be mooted if the named plaintiff (or in
effect his attorney) chose to pursue the matter, even though the named
plaintiff could no longer obtain any personal relief from the deci-
sion sought.575 The cases further raised the prospect of a possible
weakening of the “personal stake” requirement in other areas, such
as the representation of third-party claims in non-class actions and
the initiation of some litigation in the form of a “private attorneys
general” pursuit of adjudication.576 In Genesis Healthcare Corp. v.
Symczyk,577 however, the Court appeared to cabin a more flexible
concept of mootness to class actions. 578
    Retroactivity Versus Prospectivity.—One of the distinguish-
ing features of an advisory opinion is that it lays down a rule to be
applied to future cases, much as does legislation generally. It should
therefore follow that an Article III court could not decide purely pro-
spective cases, cases which do not govern the rights and disabili-

      574 445 U.S. at 403. Justices Powell, Stewart, Rehnquist, and Chief Justice Burger

dissented, id. at 409, arguing there could be no Article III personal stake in a proce-
dural decision separate from the outcome of the case. In Deposit Guaranty Nat’l
Bank v. Roper, 445 U.S. 326 (1980), in an opinion by Chief Justice Burger, the Court
held that a class action was not mooted when defendant tendered to the named plain-
tiffs the full amount of recovery they had individually asked for and could hope to
retain. Plaintiffs’ interest in shifting part of the share of costs of litigation to those
who would share in its benefits if the class were certified was deemed to be a suffi-
cient, continuing “personal stake”, although the value of this interest was at best
speculative. Compare Genesis Healthcare Corp. v. Symczyk, 569 U.S. ___, No. 11–
1059, slip op. (2013).
      575 The named plaintiff must still satisfy the class action requirement of ad-

equacy of representation. United States Parole Comm’n v. Geraghty, 445 U.S. 388,
405–407 (1980). On the implications of Geraghty, which the Court has not returned
to, see Hart & Wechsler (6th ed.), supra at 194–198.
      576 Geraghty, 445 U.S. at 404 & n.11; see also 445 U.S. at 419–24 (Justice Pow-

ell dissenting).
      577 569 U.S. ___, No. 11–1059, slip op. (2013).
      578 In Genesis Healthcare Corp., the plaintiff sought damages under a provision

of the Fair Labor Standards Act that authorized her to file on behalf of herself and
“other employees similarly situated.” The plaintiff ’s individual claim was assumed
to have been made moot by the defendant’s subsequent offer of a full settlement to
her, with the consequence, according to the five-Justice majority, that plaintiff’s collective-
action allegations no longer were justiciable in the absence of additional claimants
opting in. Unlike a class in a class action, the catch-all of “other employees simi-
larly situated” has no independent legal status under a collective-action suit apart
from those filing written consent with the court.
