which were limited to a four-year term in office. Chief Justice Mar-
shall wrote for the Court: “These courts, then, are not constitu-
tional courts, in which the judicial power conferred by the constitu-
tion on the general government, can be deposited. They are incapable
of receiving it. They are legislative courts, created in virtue of the
general right of sovereignty which exists in the government, or in
virtue of that clause which enables Congress to make all needful
rules and regulations, respecting the territory belonging to the United
States. The jurisdiction with which they are invested, is not a part
of that judicial power which is defined in the 3d article of the con-
stitution, but is conferred by congress, in the execution of those gen-
eral powers which that body possesses over the territories of the
United States.” 52 The Court went on to hold that admiralty juris-
diction can be exercised in the states only in those courts that are
established pursuant to Article III, but that the same limitation does
not apply to the territorial courts, for in legislating for them “Con-
gress exercises the combined powers of the general, and of a state
government.” 53
     Canter postulated a simple proposition: “Constitutional courts
exercise the judicial power described in Art. III of the Constitution;
legislative courts do not and cannot.” 54 A two-fold difficulty at-
tended this proposition, however. Admiralty jurisdiction is included
within the “judicial power of the United States” specifically in Ar-
ticle III, requiring an explanation how this territorial court could
receive and exercise it. Second, if territorial courts could not exer-
cise Article III power, how might their decisions be subjected to ap-
pellate review in the Supreme Court, or indeed in other Article III
courts, which could exercise only Article III judicial power? 55 More-
over, if in fact some “judicial power” may be devolved upon courts
not having the constitutional security of tenure and salary, what
prevents Congress from undermining those values intended to be

    52  26 U.S. at 546.
    53  26 U.S. at 546. In Glidden Co. v. Zdanok, 370 U.S. 530, 544–45 (1962), Jus-
tice Harlan asserted that Chief Justice Marshall in Canter “did not mean to imply
that the case heard by the Key West court was not one of admiralty jurisdiction
otherwise properly justiciable in a Federal District Court sitting in one of the States. . . .
All the Chief Justice meant . . . is that in the territories cases and controversies
falling within the enumeration of Article III may be heard and decided in courts
constituted without regard to the limitations of that article. . . .”
     54 Northern Pipeline Constr. Co. v. Marathon Pipe Line Co., 458 U.S. 50, 106

(1982) (Justice White dissenting).
     55 That the Supreme Court could review the judgments of territorial courts was

established in Durousseau v. United States, 10 U.S. (6 Cr.) 307 (1810). See also Benner
v. Porter, 50 U.S. (9 How.) 235, 243 (1850); Clinton v. Englebrecht, 80 U.S. (13 Wall.)
434 (1872); Balzac v. Porto Rico, 258 U.S. 298 (1922).
