exercise in constitutional interpretation, and is a responsibility of
this Court as ultimate interpreter of the Constitution.” 656 Follow-
ing a discussion of several areas in which the doctrine had been
used, Justice Brennan continued: “It is apparent that several for-
mulations which vary slightly according to the settings in which
the questions arise may describe a political question, although each
has one or more elements which identify it as essentially a func-
tion of the separation of powers.”
     The Justice went on to list a variety of factors to be considered,
noting that “[p]rominent on the surface of any case held to involve
a political question is found a textually demonstrable constitu-
tional commitment of the issue to a coordinate political depart-
ment; or a lack of judicially discoverable and manageable stan-
dards for resolving it; or the impossibility of deciding without an
initial policy determination of a kind clearly for nonjudicial discre-
tion; or the impossibility of a court’s undertaking independent reso-
lution without expressing lack of the respect due coordinate branches
of government; or an unusual need for unquestioning adherence to
a political decision already made; or the potentiality of embarrass-
ment from multifarious pronouncements by various departments on
one question.” 657
    Powell v. McCormack.—Because Baker had apparently re-
stricted the political question doctrine to intrafederal issues, there
was no discussion of the doctrine when the Court held that it had
power to review and overturn a state legislature’s refusal to seat a
member-elect because of his expressed views.658 But in Powell v.
McCormack,659 the Court was confronted with a challenge to the
exclusion of a member-elect by the United States House of Repre-
sentatives. Its determination that the political question doctrine did

    656  369 U.S. at 211.
    657  369 U.S. at 217. It remains unclear after Baker whether the political ques-
tion doctrine is applicable solely to intrafederal issues or only primarily, so that the
existence of one or more of these factors in a case involving, say, a state, might still
give rise to nonjusticiability. At one point, id. at 210, Justice Brennan says that
nonjusticiability of a political question is “primarily” a function of separation of pow-
ers but in the immediately preceding paragraph he states that “it is” the intrafederal
aspect “and not the federal judiciary’s relationship to the States” that raises politi-
cal questions. But subsequently, id. at 226, he balances the present case, which in-
volves a state and not a branch of the Federal Government, against each of the fac-
tors listed in the instant quotation and notes that none apply. His discussion of why
Guarantee Clause cases are political presents much the same difficulty, id. at 222–
26, because he joins the conclusion that the clause commits resolution of such is-
sues to Congress with the assertion that the clause contains no “criteria by which a
court could determine which form of government was republican,” id. at 222, a fac-
tor not present when the Equal Protection Clause is relied on. Id. at 226.
     658 Bond v. Floyd, 385 U.S. 116 (1966).
     659 395 U.S. 486 (1969).
