Cramer’s treasonable intention was sufficiently shown by overt acts
as attested to by two witnesses each, plus statements made by Cramer
on the witness stand.
     The Haupt Case.—The Supreme Court sustained a conviction
of treason, for the first time in its history, in 1947 in Haupt v. United
States.1429 Here it was held that although the overt acts relied upon
to support the charge of treason—defendant’s harboring and shel-
tering in his home his son who was an enemy spy and saboteur,
assisting him in purchasing an automobile, and in obtaining employ-
ment in a defense plant—were all acts which a father would natu-
rally perform for a son, this fact did not necessarily relieve them of
the treasonable purpose of giving aid and comfort to the enemy. Speak-
ing for the Court, Justice Jackson said: “No matter whether young
Haupt’s mission was benign or traitorous, known or unknown to
the defendant, these acts were aid and comfort to him. In the light
of this mission and his instructions, they were more than casually
useful; they were aids in steps essential to his design for treason.
If proof be added that the defendant knew of his son’s instruction,
preparation and plans, the purpose to aid and comfort the enemy
becomes clear.” 1430
    The Court held that conversation and occurrences long prior to
the indictment were admissible evidence on the question of defen-
dant’s intent. And more important, it held that the constitutional
requirement of two witnesses to the same overt act or confession in
open court does not operate to exclude confessions or admissions
made out of court, where a legal basis for the conviction has been
laid by the testimony of two witnesses of which such confessions or
admissions are merely corroborative. This relaxation of restrictions
surrounding the definition of treason evoked obvious satisfaction from
Justice Douglas, who saw in Haupt a vindication of his position in
Cramer. His concurring opinion contains what may be called a re-
statement of the law of treason and merits quotation at length:
    “As the Cramer case makes plain, the overt act and the intent
with which it is done are separate and distinct elements of the crime.
Intent need not be proved by two witnesses but may be inferred
from all the circumstances surrounding the overt act. But if two
witnesses are not required to prove treasonable intent, two wit-
nesses need not be required to show the treasonable character of
betray, there is no treason.” Id. at 29. Justice Jackson states erroneously that the
requirement of two witnesses to the same overt act was an original invention of the
Convention of 1787. Actually it comes from the British Treason Trials Act of 1695. 7
Wm. III, c.3.
    1429 330 U.S. 631 (1947).
    1430 330 U.S. at 635–36.
