the overt act. For proof of treasonable intent in the doing of the
overt act necessarily involves proof that the accused committed the
overt act with the knowledge or understanding of its treasonable
character.”
    “The requirement of an overt act is to make certain a treason-
able project has moved from the realm of thought into the realm of
action. That requirement is undeniably met in the present case, as
it was in the case of Cramer.”
    “The Cramer case departed from those rules when it held that
‘The two-witness principle is to interdict imputation of incriminat-
ing acts to the accused by circumstantial evidence or by the testi-
mony of a single witness.’ 325 U.S. p. 35. The present decision is
truer to the constitutional definition of treason when it forsakes that
test and holds that an act, quite innocent on its face, does not need
two witnesses to be transformed into a incriminating one.” 1431
    The Kawakita Case.— Kawakita v. United States 1432 was de-
cided on June 2, 1952. The facts are sufficiently stated in the follow-
ing headnote: “At petitioner’s trial for treason, it appeared that origi-
nally he was a native-born citizen of the United States and also a
national of Japan by reason of Japanese parentage and law. While
a minor, he took the oath of allegiance to the United States; went
to Japan for a visit on an American passport; and was prevented
by the outbreak of war from returning to this country. During the
war, he reached his majority in Japan; changed his registration from
American to Japanese, showed sympathy with Japan and hostility
to the United States; served as a civilian employee of a private cor-
poration producing war materials for Japan; and brutally abused
American prisoners of war who were forced to work there. After Ja-
pan’s surrender, he registered as an American citizen; swore that
he was an American citizen and had not done various acts amount-
ing to expatriation; and returned to this country on an American
passport.” The question whether, on this record, Kawakita had in-
tended to renounce American citizenship, said the Court, in sustain-
ing conviction, was peculiarly one for the jury and their verdict that
he had not so intended was based on sufficient evidence. An Ameri-

    1431 330 U.S. at 645–46. Justice Douglas cites no cases for these propositions.

Justice Murphy in a solitary dissent stated: “But the act of providing shelter was of
the type that might naturally arise out of petitioner’s relationship to his son, as the
Court recognizes. By its very nature, therefore, it is a non-treasonous act. That is
true even when the act is viewed in light of all the surrounding circumstances. All
that can be said is that the problem of whether it was motivated by treasonous or
non-treasonous factors is left in doubt. It is therefore not an overt act of treason,
regardless of how unlawful it might otherwise be.” Id. at 649.
    1432 343 U.S. 717 (1952).
