     Another Reconstruction Congress attempt to curb the judiciary
failed in United States v. Klein,1218 in which the Court voided a stat-
ute, couched in jurisdictional terms, which attempted to set aside
both the effect of a presidential pardon and the judicial effectua-
tion of such a pardon.1219 The statute declared that no pardon was
to be admissible in evidence in support of any claim against the
United States in the Court of Claims for the return of confiscated
property of Confederates nor, if already put in evidence in a pend-
ing case, should it be considered on behalf of the claimant by the
Court of Claims or by the Supreme Court on appeal. Proof of loy-
alty was required to be made according to provisions of certain con-
gressional enactments, and when judgment had already been ren-
dered on other proof of loyalty the Supreme Court on appeal should
have no further jurisdiction and should dismiss for want of jurisdic-
tion. Moreover, it was provided that the recitation in any pardon
which had been received that the claimant had taken part in the
rebellion was to be taken as conclusive evidence that the claimant
had been disloyal and was not entitled to regain his property.
    The Court began by reaffirming that Congress controlled the ex-
istence of the inferior federal courts and the jurisdiction vested in
them and the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. “But the
language of this provision shows plainly that it does not intend to
withhold appellate jurisdiction except as a means to an end. . . . It
is evident . . . that the denial of jurisdiction to this court, as well
as to the Court of Claims, is founded solely on the application of a
rule of decision, in causes pending, prescribed by Congress. The Court
has jurisdiction of the cause to a given point; but when it ascer-

could command a majority view today.” Justice Harlan, however, cited McCardle with
apparent approval of its holding, id. at 567–68, while noting that Congress’s “author-
ity is not, of course, unlimited.” Id. at 568. McCardle was cited approvingly in Bruner
v. United States, 343 U.S. 112, 117 n.8 (1952), as illustrating the rule “that when a
law conferring jurisdiction is repealed without any reservation as to pending cases,
all cases fall with the law. . . .”
     1218 80 U.S. (13 Wall.) 128 (1872). See C. Fairman, supra at 558–618. The semi-

nal discussion of Klein may be found in Young, Congressional Regulation of Federal
Courts’ Jurisdiction and Processes: United States v. Klein Revisited, 1981 WISC. L.
REV. 1189. While he granted that Klein is limited insofar as its bearing on jurisdic-
tional limitation per se is concerned, he cited an ambiguous holding in Armstrong v.
United States, 80 U.S. (13 Wall.) 154 (1872), as in fact a judicial invalidation of a
jurisdictional limitation. Young, id. at 1222–23 n.179.
     1219 Congress by the Act of July 17, 1862, §§ 5, 13, authorized the confiscation

of property of those persons in rebellion and authorized the President to issue par-
dons on such conditions as he deemed expedient, the latter provision being unneces-
sary in light of Article II, § 2, cl. 1. The President’s pardons all provided for restora-
tion of property, except slaves, and in United States v. Padelford, 76 U.S. (9 Wall.)
531 (1870), the Court held the claimant entitled to the return of his property on the
basis of his pardon. Congress thereupon enacted the legislation in question. 16 Stat.
235 (1870).
