     In 1933, nevertheless, the Court abandoned all previous dicta
on the subject and found the courts of the District of Columbia to
be constitutional courts exercising the judicial power of the United
States,100 with the result that it assumed the task of reconciling
the performance of nonjudicial functions by such courts with the
rule that constitutional courts can exercise only the judicial power
of the United States. This task was accomplished by the argument
that, in establishing courts for the District, Congress performs dual
functions pursuant to two distinct powers: the power to constitute
tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court, and its plenary and exclu-
sive power to legislate for the District of Columbia. However, Ar-
ticle III, § 1, limits this latter power with respect to tenure and com-
pensation, but not with respect to vesting legislative and administrative
powers in such courts. Subject to the guarantees of personal liberty
in the Constitution, “Congress has as much power to vest courts of
the District with a variety of jurisdiction and powers as a state leg-
islature has in conferring jurisdiction on its courts.” 101
     In 1970, Congress formally recognized two sets of courts in the
District: federal courts (the United States District Court for the Dis-
trict of Columbia and the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia, created pursuant to Article III), and courts
equivalent to state and territorial courts (including the District of
Columbia Court of Appeals), created pursuant to Article I.102 Con-
gress’s action was sustained in Palmore v. United States.103 When
legislating for the District, the Court held, Congress has the power
of a local legislature and may, pursuant to Article I, § 8, cl. 17, vest
jurisdiction to hear matters of local law and local concerns in courts
not having Article III characteristics. The defendant’s claim that he
was denied his constitutional right to be tried before an Article III
judge was denied on the basis that it was not absolutely necessary
that every proceeding in which a charge, claim, or defense based
on an act of Congress or a law made under its authority need be
conducted in an Article III court. State courts, after all, could hear
cases involving federal law as could territorial and military courts.
“[T]he requirements of Art. III, which are applicable where laws of
national applicability and affairs of national concern are at stake,
must in proper circumstances give way to accommodate plenary grants
    100 O’Donoghue v. United States, 289 U.S. 516 (1933).
    101 289 U.S. at 545. Chief Justice Hughes in dissent argued that Congress’s power
over the District was complete in itself and the power to create courts there did not
derive at all from Article III. Id. at 551. See the discussion of this point of O’Donoghue
in National Mutual Ins. Co. v. Tidewater Transfer Co., 337 U.S. 582 (1949). Cf. Hobson
v. Hansen, 265 F. Supp. 902 (D.D.C. 1967) (three-judge court).
    102 Pub. L. 91–358, 84 Stat. 475, D.C. Code § 11–101.
    103 411 U.S. 389 (1973).
