work: in territories and the District of Columbia, that is, geographi-
cal areas in which no state operated as sovereign and Congress ex-
ercised the general powers of government; courts martial, that is,
the establishment of courts under a constitutional grant of power
historically understood as giving the political branches extraordi-
nary control over the precise subject matter; and the adjudication
of “public rights,” that is, the litigation of certain matters that his-
torically were reserved to the political branches of government and
that were between the government and the individual.107 In bank-
ruptcy legislation and litigation not involving any of these excep-
tions, the plurality would have held, the judicial power to process
bankruptcy cases could not be assigned to the tribunals created by
the act.108
     The dissent argued that, although on its face Article III pro-
vided that judicial power could only be assigned to Article III enti-
ties, the history since Canter belied that simplicity. Rather, the prec-
edents clearly indicated that there is no difference in principle between
the work that Congress may assign to an Article I court and that
which must be given to an Article III court. Despite this, the dis-
sent contended that Congress did not possess plenary discretion in
choosing between the two systems; rather, in evaluating whether
jurisdiction was properly reposed in an Article I court, the Su-
preme Court must balance the values of Article III against both the
strength of the interest Congress sought to further by its Article I
investiture and the extent to which Article III values were under-
mined by the congressional action. This balancing would afford the
Court, the dissent believed, the power to prevent Congress, were it
moved to do so, from transferring jurisdiction in order to emascu-
late the constitutional courts of the United States.109
    No majority could be marshaled behind a principled discussion
of the reasons for and the limitation upon the creation of legisla-
tive courts, not that a majority opinion, or even a unanimous one,

     107 458 U.S. at 63–76 (Justice Brennan, joined by Justices Marshall, Blackmun,

and Stevens).
     108 The plurality also rejected an alternative basis, a contention that as “ad-

juncts” of the district courts, the bankruptcy courts were like United States magis-
trates or like those agencies approved in Crowell v. Benson, 285 U.S. 22 (1932), to
which could be assigned fact-finding functions subject to review in Article III courts,
the fount of the administrative agency system. Northern Pipeline Constr. Co. v. Mara-
thon Pipe Line Co., 458 U.S. 50, 76–86 (1982). According to the plurality, the act
vested too much judicial power in the bankruptcy courts to treat them like agen-
cies, and it limited the review of Article III courts too much.
     109 458 U.S. at 92, 105–13, 113–16 (Justice White, joined by Chief Justice Burger

and Justice Powell).
