ity of limited judicial review of the arbitrator’s findings and deter-
mination for fraud, misconduct, or misrepresentation, and for due
process violations, preserved the “ ‘appropriate exercise of the judi-
cial function.’ ” 125 Thus, the Court concluded, Congress in exercise
of Article I powers “may create a seemingly ‘private’ right that is
so closely integrated into a public regulatory scheme as to be a mat-
ter appropriate for agency resolution with limited involvement by
the Article III judiciary.” 126
     In Schor, the Court described Art. III, § 1 as serving a dual pur-
pose: to protect the role of an independent judiciary and to safe-
guard the right of litigants to have claims decided by judges free
from potential domination by the other branches of government. A
litigant’s Article III right is not absolute, the Court determined, but
may be waived. This the litigant had done by submitting to the ad-
ministrative law judge’s jurisdiction rather than independently seek-
ing relief as he was entitled to and then objecting only after ad-
verse rulings on the merits. But the institutional integrity claim,
not being personal, could not be waived, and the Court reached the
merits. The threat to institutional independence was “weighed” by
reference to “a number of factors.” The conferral on the CFTC of
pendent jurisdiction over common law counterclaims was seen as
more narrowly confined than was the grant to bankruptcy courts
at issue in Marathon, and as more closely resembling the “model”
approved in Crowell v. Benson. The CFTC’s jurisdiction, unlike that
of bankruptcy courts, was said to be confined to “a particularized
area of the law;” the agency’s orders were enforceable only by order
of a district court,127 and reviewable under a less deferential stan-
dard, with legal rulings being subject to de novo review; and the
agency was not empowered, as had been the bankruptcy courts, to
exercise “all ordinary powers of district courts.”
     Granfinanciera followed analysis different from that in Schor,
although it preserved Union Carbide through its concept of “public
rights.” State law and other legal claims founded on private rights
could not be remitted to non-Article III tribunals for adjudication
unless Congress, in creating an integrated public regulatory scheme,
has so taken up the right as to transform it. It may not simply re-
label a private right and place it into the regulatory scheme. The
Court is hazy with respect to whether the right itself must be a
    125    Thomas, 473 U.S. at 591, 592 (quoting Crowell v. Benson, 285 U.S. 22, 54
(1932)).
    126473 U.S. at 594.
    127Cf. Union Carbide, 473 U.S. at 591 (fact that “FIFRA arbitration scheme in-
corporates its own system of internal sanctions and relies only tangentially, if at all,
on the Judicial Branch for enforcement” cited as lessening danger of encroachment
on “Article III judicial powers”).
