creature of federal statutory action. The general descriptive lan-
guage suggests that, but the Court seemingly goes beyond this point
in its determination whether the right at issue in the case, the re-
covery of preferential or fraudulent transfers in the context of a bank-
ruptcy proceeding, is a “private right” that carries with it a right
to jury trial. Though a statutory interest, the actions were identi-
cal to state-law contract claims brought by a bankrupt corporation
to augment the estate.128 Schor was distinguished solely on the waiver
part of the decision, relating to the individual interest, without con-
sidering the part of the opinion deciding the institutional interest
on the merits and utilizing a balancing test.129 Thus, although the
Court has made some progress in reconciling its growing line of dis-
parate cases, doctrinal harmony has not yet been achieved.
Noncourt Entities in the Judicial Branch
     Passing on the constitutionality of the establishment of the Sen-
tencing Commission as an “independent” body in the judicial branch,
the Court acknowledged that the Commission is not a court and
does not exercise judicial power. Rather, its function is to promul-
gate binding sentencing guidelines for federal courts. It acts, there-
fore, legislatively, and its membership of seven is composed of three
judges and three nonjudges. But the standard of constitutionality,
the Court held, is whether the entity exercises powers that are more
appropriately performed by another branch or that undermine the
integrity of the judiciary. Because the imposition of sentences is a
function traditionally exercised within congressionally prescribed lim-
its by federal judges, the Court found the functions of the Commis-
sion could be located in the judicial branch. Nor did performance of
its functions contribute, in any meaningful way, to a weakening of
the judiciary or an aggrandizement of power, the Court ob-
served.130
                              JUDICIAL POWER
Characteristics and Attributes of Judicial Power
    Judicial power is the power “of a court to decide and pronounce
a judgment and carry it into effect between persons and parties who
    128  Granfinanciera, 492 U.S. at 51–55, 55–60.
    129  492 U.S. at 59 n.14.
     130 Mistretta v. United States, 488 U.S. 361, 384–97 (1989). Clearly, some of the

powers vested in the Special Division of the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit under the Ethics in Government Act in respect to the
independent counsel were administrative, but because the major nonjudicial power,
the appointment of the independent counsel, was specifically authorized in the ap-
pointments clause, the additional powers were miscellaneous and could be lodged
there by Congress. Implicit in the Court’s analysis was the principle that a line ex-
ists that Congress may not cross. Morrison v. Olson, 487 U.S. 654, 677–685 (1988).
