dence on federal constitutional grounds in accordance with state pro-
cedure and within state time constraints, the state courts may
therefore simply refuse to address the merits of the claim, and the
state’s “independent and adequate state ground” bars direct federal
review of the claim.1361 Whether a similar result prevailed upon ha-
beas divided the Court in Brown v. Allen,1362 in which the majority
held that a prisoner, refused consideration of his appeal in state
court because his papers had been filed a day late, could not be
heard on habeas because of his state procedural default. The result
was changed in Fay v. Noia, in which the Court held that the ad-
equate and independent state ground doctrine was a limitation only
upon the Court’s appellate review, but that it had no place in ha-
beas. A federal court has power to consider any claim that has been
procedurally defaulted in state courts.1363
    Still, the Court recognized that the states had legitimate inter-
ests that were served by their procedural rules, and that it was im-
portant that state courts have the opportunity to afford a claimant
relief to which he might be entitled. Thus, a federal court had dis-
cretion to deny a habeas petitioner relief if it found that he had
deliberately bypassed state procedure; the discretion could be exer-
cised only if the court found that the prisoner had intentionally waived
his right to pursue his state remedy.1364
     Liberalization of the writ thus made it possible for convicted
persons who had fully litigated their claims at state trials and on
appeal, who had because of some procedural default been denied
the opportunity to have their claims reviewed, or who had been at
least once heard on federal habeas, to have the chance to present
their grounds for relief to a federal habeas judge. In addition to op-
portunities to relitigate the facts and the law relating to their con-
victions, prisoners could also take advantage of new constitutional
decisions that were retroactive. The filings in federal courts in-
creased year by year, but the numbers of prisoners who in fact ob-
tained either release or retrial remained quite small. A major ef-
fect, however, was to exacerbate the feelings of state judges and state
law enforcement officials and to stimulate many efforts in Congress

    1361 E.g., Murdock v. City of Memphis, 87 U.S. (20 Wall.) 590 (1875); Herb v.

Pitcairn, 324 U.S. 117 (1945). In the habeas context, the procedural-bar rules are
ultimately a function of the requirement that petitioners first exhaust state av-
enues of relief before coming to federal court.
    1362 344 U.S. 443 (1953).
    1363 Fay v. Noia, 372 U.S. 391, 424–34 (1963).
    1364 372 U.S. at 438–40.
