spiring to subvert by force the government of our country, such con-
spiracy is not treason. To conspire to levy war, and actually to levy
war, are distinct offences. The first must be brought into open ac-
tion by the assemblage of men for a purpose treasonable in itself,
or the fact of levying war cannot have been committed. So far has
this principle been carried, that . . . it has been determined that
the actual enlistment of men to serve against the government does
not amount to levying war.” Chief Justice Marshall was careful, how-
ever, to state that the Court did not mean that no person could be
guilty of this crime who had not appeared in arms against the coun-
try. “On the contrary, if war be actually levied, that is, if a body of
men be actually assembled for the purpose of effecting by force a
treasonable purpose, all those who perform any part, however min-
ute, or however remote from the scene of action, and who are actu-
ally leagued in the general conspiracy, are to be considered as trai-
tors. But there must be an actual assembling of men, for the
treasonable purpose, to constitute a levying of war.” 1421
    On the basis of these considerations and because no part of the
crime charged had been committed in the District of Columbia, the
Court held that Bollman and Swartwout could not be tried in the
District, and ordered their discharge. Marshall continued by saying
that “the crime of treason should not be extended by construction
to doubtful cases” and concluded that no conspiracy for overturn-
ing the Government and “no enlisting of men to effect it, would be
an actual levying of war.” 1422
    The Burr Trial.—Not long afterward, the Chief Justice went
to Richmond to preside over the trial of Aaron Burr. His ruling 1423
denying a motion to introduce certain collateral evidence bearing
on Burr’s activities is significant both for rendering the latter’s ac-
quittal inevitable and for the qualifications and exceptions made to
the Bollman decision. In brief, this ruling held that Burr, who had
not been present at the assemblage on Blennerhassett’s Island, could
be convicted of advising or procuring a levying of war only upon
the testimony of two witnesses to his having procured the assem-
blage. This operation having been covert, such testimony was natu-
rally unobtainable. The net effect of Marshall’s pronouncements was



   1421 8 U.S. at 126.
   1422 8 U.S. at 127.
   1423 United States v. Burr, 8 U.S. (4 Cr.) 469, Appx. (1807).
