    Agency Adjudication.—In two decisions subsequent to Mara-
thon involving legislative courts, Thomas v. Union Carbide Agric.
Products Co.118 and CFTC v. Schor,119 the Court clearly suggested
that the majority was now closer to the balancing approach of the
Marathon dissenters than to the Marathon plurality’s position that
Congress may confer judicial power on legislative courts only in very
limited circumstances. Subsequently, however, Granfinanciera, S.A.
v. Nordberg,120 a reversion to the fundamentality of Marathon, with
an opinion by the same author, Justice Brennan, cast some doubt
on this proposition.
     In Union Carbide, the Court upheld a provision of a pesticide
law which required binding arbitration, with limited judicial re-
view, of compensation due one registrant by another for mandatory
sharing of registration information pursuant to federal statutory law.
And in Schor, the Court upheld conferral on the agency of author-
ity, in a reparations adjudication under the Act, to also adjudicate
“counterclaims” arising out of the same transaction, including those
arising under state common law. Neither the fact that the pesticide
case involved a dispute between two private parties nor the fact
that the CFTC was empowered to decide claims traditionally adju-
dicated under state law proved decisive to the Court’s analysis.
     In rejecting a “formalistic” approach and analyzing the “sub-
stance” of the provision at issue in Union Carbide, Justice O’Connor‘s
opinion for the Court pointed to several considerations.121 The right
to compensation was not a purely private right, but “bears many of
the characteristics of a ‘public’ right,” because Congress was “autho-
riz[ing] an agency administering a complex regulatory scheme to
allocate costs and benefits among voluntary participants in the pro-
gram. . . .” 122 Also deemed important was not “unduly constrict-
[ing] Congress’s ability to take needed and innovative action pursu-
ant to its Article I powers”; 123 arbitration seen as “a pragmatic solution
to [a] difficult problem.” 124 The limited nature of judicial review was
seen as a plus in the sense that “no unwilling defendant is sub-
jected to judicial enforcement power.” On the other hand, availabil-
27 (2011) (citations omitted). The Court also noted that filing of a claim in bank-
ruptcy court (here, a defamation claim) did not constitute consent to a counter-
claim, as the claimant had nowhere else to go to obtain recovery. Id.
    118 473 U.S. 568 (1985).
    119 478 U.S. 833 (1986).
    120 492 U.S. 33 (1989).
    121 Contrast the Court’s approach to Article III separation of powers issues with

the more rigid approach enunciated in INS v. Chadha and Bowsher v. Synar, involv-
ing congressional incursions on executive power.
    122 473 U.S. at 589.
    123 CFTC v. Schor, 478 U.S. at 851 (summarizing the Thomas rule).
    124 Thomas, 473 U.S. at 590.
