Judicial Immunity from Suit
     Under common law—the Supreme Court has not elevated judi-
cial immunity from suit to a constitutional principle—judges “are
responsible to the people alone for the manner in which they per-
form their duties. If faithless, if corrupt, if dishonest, if partial, if
oppressive or arbitrary, they may be called to account by impeach-
ment, and removed from office. . . . But responsible they are not to
private parties in civil actions for the judicial acts, however injuri-
ous may be those acts, and however much they may deserve con-
demnation, unless perhaps where the acts are palpably in excess of
the jurisdiction of the judges, and are done maliciously or cor-
ruptly.” 167 Three years later, the Court qualified this exception to
judges’ immunity: the phrase beginning “unless, perhaps,” the Court
wrote, was “not necessary to a correct statement of the law, and
. . . judges . . . are not liable to civil actions for their judicial acts,
even when such acts are in excess of their jurisdiction, and are al-
leged to have been done maliciously or corruptly. A distinction must
be here observed between excess of jurisdiction and the clear ab-
sence of all jurisdiction over the subject-matter,” with judges sub-
ject to liability only in the latter instance.168
    In Stump v. Sparkman, the Court upheld the immunity of a
judge who approved a petition from the mother of a 15-year-old girl
to have the girl sterilized without her knowledge (she was told that
she was to have her appendix removed).169 In a 5-to-3 opinion, the
Court found that there was not the “clear absence of all jurisdic-
tion” that is required to hold a judge civilly liable. The judge had
jurisdiction “in all cases at law and in equity whatsoever,” except
where exclusive jurisdiction is “conferred by law upon some other
court, board, or officer,” and no statute or case law prohibited the
judge from considering a petition for sterilization.170 The Court also
     167 Randall v. Brigham, 74 U.S. 523, 537 (1869). Judicial immunity “is a gen-

eral principle of the highest importance to the proper administration of justice . . . .
Liability . . . would destroy that independence without which no judiciary can be
either respectable or useful. . . . Nor can this exemption of the judges from civil
liability be affected by the motives with which their judicial acts are performed.”
Bradley v. Fisher, 80 U.S. 335, 347 (1872).
     168 Bradley v. Fisher, 80 U.S. 335, 351 (1872). The Court offered a hypothetical

example of the distinction. A judge of a probate court who held a criminal trial would
act in clear absence of all jurisdiction over the subject matter, whereas a judge of a
criminal court who held a criminal trial for an offense that was not illegal would
act merely in excess of his jurisdiction. Id. at 352.
     169 435 U.S. 349 (1978).
     170 435 U.S. at 357, 358. The defendant was an Indiana state court judge, but

the suit was in federal court under 42 U.S.C. § 1983. The Court noted that it had
held in Pierson v. Ray, 386 U.S. 547 (1967), that there was no indication that, in
enacting this statute, Congress had intended to abolish the principle of judicial im-
munity established in Bradley v. Fisher, supra.
