lation the Justice had in mind was presumably to be of the parties
and related persons rather than of the press, the potential for con-
flict with the First Amendment is obvious, as well as is the neces-
sity for protection of the equally important right to a fair trial.210
     Due Process Limitations on Contempt Power: Right to No-
tice and to a Hearing Versus Summary Punishment.—
Misbehavior in the course of a trial may be punished summarily by
the trial judge. In Ex parte Terry,211 the Court denied habeas cor-
pus relief to a litigant who had been jailed for assaulting a United
States marshal in the presence of the court. In Cooke v. United
States,212 however, the Court remanded for further proceedings a
judgment jailing an attorney and his client for presenting the judge
a letter which impugned his impartiality with respect to their case,
still pending before him. Distinguishing the case from that of Terry,
Chief Justice Taft, speaking for the unanimous Court, said: “The
important distinction . . . is that this contempt was not in open
court. . . . To preserve order in the court room for the proper con-
duct of business, the court must act instantly to suppress distur-
bance or violence or physical obstruction or disrespect to the court
when occurring in open court. There is no need of evidence or assis-
tance of counsel before punishment, because the court has seen the
offense. Such summary vindication of the court’s dignity and author-
ity is necessary. It has always been so in the courts of the common
law and the punishment imposed is due process of law.” 213
     As to the timeliness of summary punishment, the Court, in Sacher
v. United States,214 at first construed Rule 42(a) of the Federal Rules
of Criminal Procedure, which was designed to afford judges clearer
guidelines as to the exercise of their contempt power, to allow “the
trial judge, upon the occurrence in his presence of a contempt, im-
mediately and summarily to punish it, if, in his opinion, delay will
prejudice the trial. We hold, on the other hand, that if he believes
the exigencies of the trial require that he defer judgment until its
completion he may do so without extinguishing his power.” 215 Sub-
sequently, however, interpreting the Due Process Clause and thus
binding both federal and state courts, the Court held that, al-
though the trial judge may summarily and without notice or hear-
ing punish contemptuous conduct committed in his presence and
observed by him, if he does choose to wait until the conclusion of
    210 For another approach, bar rules regulating the speech of counsel and the

First Amendment standard, see Gentile v. State Bar of Nevada, 501 U.S. 1030 (1991).
    211 128 U.S. 289 (1888).
    212 267 U.S. 517 (1925).
    213 267 U.S. at 535, 534.
    214 343 U.S. 1 (1952).
    215 343 U.S. at 11.
