he should not bend backward and injure the authority of the court
by too great leniency. The substitution of another judge would avoid
either tendency but it is not always possible. Of course where acts
of contempt are palpably aggravated by a personal attack upon the
judge in order to drive the judge out of the case for ulterior rea-
sons, the scheme should not be permitted to succeed. But attempts
of this kind are rare. All of such cases, however, present difficult
questions for the judge. All we can say upon the whole matter is
that where conditions do not make it impracticable, or where the
delay may not injure public or private right, a judge called upon to
act in a case of contempt by personal attack upon him, may, with-
out flinching from his duty, properly ask that one of his fellow judges
take his place. Cornish v. The United States, 299 Fed. 283, 285; To-
ledo Company v. The United States, 237 Fed. 986, 988. The case
before us is one in which the issue between the judge and the par-
ties had come to involve marked personal feeling that did not make
for an impartial and calm judicial consideration and conclusion, as
the statement of the proceedings abundantly shows.” 228
     Sacher v. United States 229 grew out of a tempestuous trial of
eleven Communist Party leaders in which Sacher and others were
counsel for the defense. Upon the conviction of the defendants, the
trial judge at once found counsel guilty of criminal contempt and
imposed jail terms of up to six months. At issue directly was whether
the contempt charged was one that the judge was authorized to de-
termine for himself or whether it was one that under Rule 42(b)
could be passed upon only by another judge and only after notice
and hearing, but behind this issue loomed the applicability and na-
ture of due process requirements, in particular whether the de-
fense attorneys were constitutionally entitled to trial before a differ-
ent judge. A divided Court affirmed most of the convictions, set aside
others, and denied that due process required a hearing before a dif-
ferent judge. “We hold that Rule 42 allows the trial judge, upon
the occurrence in his presence of a contempt, immediately and sum-
marily to punish it, if, in his opinion, delay will prejudice the trial.
We hold, on the other hand, that if he believes the exigencies of
the trial require that he defer judgment until its completion, he may
do so without extinguishing his power. . . . We are not unaware or
unconcerned that persons identified with unpopular causes may find
it difficult to enlist the counsel of their choice. But we think it must
be ascribed to causes quite apart from fear of being held in con-
tempt, for we think few effective lawyers would regard the tactics
    228 The Toledo Company case that the Court cited was affirmed in Toledo News-

paper Co. v. United States, 247 U.S. 402 (1918).
    229 343 U.S. 1 (1952). See Dennis v. United States, 341 U.S. 494 (1951).
