is not unlimited. In Spallone v. United States,201 the Court held that
a district court had abused its discretion by imposing contempt sanc-
tions on individual members of a city council for refusing to vote to
implement a consent decree remedying housing discrimination by
the city. The proper remedy, the Court indicated, was to proceed
first with contempt sanctions against the city, and only if that course
failed should it proceed against the council members individually.
    First Amendment Limitations on the Contempt Power.—
The phrase, “in the presence of the Court or so near thereto as to
obstruct the administration of justice,” was interpreted so broadly
in Toledo Newspaper Co. v. United States 202 as to uphold the ac-
tion of a district court judge in punishing a newspaper for con-
tempt for publishing spirited editorials and cartoons issues raised
in an action challenging a street railway’s rates. A majority of the
Court held that the test to be applied in determining the obstruc-
tion of the administration of justice is not the actual obstruction
resulting from an act, but “the character of the act done and its
direct tendency to prevent and obstruct the discharge of judicial duty.”
Similarly, the test whether a particular act is an attempt to influ-
ence or intimidate a court is not the influence exerted upon the mind
of a particular judge but “the reasonable tendency of the acts done
to influence or bring about the baleful result . . . without reference
to the consideration of how far they may have been without influ-
ence in a particular case.” 203 In Craig v. Hecht,204 these criteria were
applied to sustain the imprisonment of the comptroller of New York
City for writing and publishing a letter to a public service commis-
sioner criticizing the action of a United States district judge in re-
ceivership proceedings.
     The decision in Toledo Newspaper, however, did not follow ear-
lier decisions interpreting the act of 1831 and was grounded on his-
torical error. For these reasons, it was reversed in Nye v. United
only if refused should they appoint a private lawyer. Id. at 801–802. Still using its
supervisory power, the Court held that the district court had erred in appointing
counsel for a party that was the beneficiary of the court order; disinterested counsel
had to be appointed. Id. at 802–08. Justice Scalia contended that the power to pros-
ecute is not comprehended within Article III judicial power and that federal judges
had no power, inherent or otherwise, to initiate a prosecution for contempt or to
appoint counsel to pursue it. Id. at 815. See also United States v. Providence Jour-
nal Co., 485 U.S. 693 (1988), which involved the appointment of a disinterested pri-
vate attorney. The Supreme Court dismissed the writ of certiorari after granting it,
however, holding that only the Solicitor General representing the United States could
bring the petition to the Court. See 28 U.S.C. § 518.
    201 493 U.S. 265 (1990). The decision was an exercise of the Court’s supervisory

power. Id. at 276. Four Justices dissented. Id. at 281.
    202 247 U.S. 402 (1918).
    203 247 U.S. at 418–21.
    204 263 U.S. 255 (1923).
