son and Madison thereupon moved to authorize Congress “to appoint
inferior tribunals,” 7 which carried the implication that Congress could
in its discretion either designate the state courts to hear federal
cases or create federal courts. The word “appoint” was then ad-
opted, but over the course of the Convention the phrasing was changed
again so as to suggest somewhat more of an obligation to vest such
powers in inferior federal courts.8
    The requirement that judges hold their Officer during “good be-
havior” excited no controversy during the Convention,9 although the
lack of an enforcement mechanism for this provision resulted in im-
peachment under Article II becoming the primary mechanism for
removal of a federal judge.10 And finally, the only substantial dis-
pute that arose regarding the denial to Congress of the power to
reduce judicial salaries (a power which could be used to intimidate
judges) came on Madison’s motion to bar increases as well as de-
creases.11

One Supreme Court
    While the Convention specified that the Chief Justice of the Su-
preme Court would preside over any Presidential impeachment trial
in the Senate,12 decisions on the size and composition of the Su-
preme Court, the time and place for sitting, its internal organiza-
tion, and other matters were left to the Congress. The Congress soon
provided these details in the Judiciary Act of 1789, one of the semi-

     7 Madison’s notes use the word “institute” in place of “appoint,” id. at 125, but

the latter appears in the Convention Journal, id. at 118, and in Yates’ notes, id. at
127, and when the Convention took up the draft reported by the Committee of the
Whole “appoint” is used even in Madison’s notes. 2 id. at 38, 45.
     8 On offering their motion, Wilson and Madison “observed that there was a dis-

tinction between establishing such tribunals absolutely, and giving a discretion to
the Legislature to establish or not establish them.” 1 id. at 125. The Committee on
Detail provided for the vesting of judicial power in one Supreme Court “and in such
inferior Courts as shall, when necessary, from time to time, be constituted by the
legislature of the United States.” 2 id. at 186. Its draft also authorized Congress
“[t]o constitute tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court.” Id. at 182. No debate is
recorded when the Convention approved these two clauses, Id. at 315, 422–23, 428–
30. The Committee on Style left the clause empowering Congress to “constitute” in-
ferior tribunals as was, but it deleted “as shall, when necessary” from the Judiciary
article, so that the judicial power was vested “in such inferior courts as Congress
may from time to time”—and here deleted “constitute” and substituted the more force-
ful—“ordain and establish.” Id. at 600.
     9 The provision was in the Virginia Plan and was approved throughout, 1 id. at

21.
     10 See Article II, Judges, supra.
     11 Id. at 121; 2 id. at 44–45, 429–430.
     12 Article I, § 3, cl. 6.
