between Citizens of different States,—between Citizens of the
same State claiming Land under Grants of different States, and
between a State, or the Citizens thereof, and foreign States, Citi-
zens or Subjects.

             JUDICIAL POWER AND JURISDICTION-CASES AND
                          CONTROVERSIES
            The potential for abuse of judicial power was of concern to the
        Founding Fathers, leading them to establish limits on the circum-
        stance in which the courts could consider cases. When, late in the
        Convention, a delegate proposed to extend the judicial power be-
        yond the consideration of laws and treaties to include cases arising
        under the Constitution, Madison’s notes captured these concerns.
        “Mr. Madison doubted whether it was not going too far to extend
        the jurisdiction of the Court generally to cases arising under the
        Constitution, and whether it ought not to be limited to cases of a
        Judiciary Nature. The right of expounding the Constitution in cases
        not of this nature ought not to be given to that Department.” Con-
        sequently, “[t]he motion of Docr. Johnson was agreed to nem : con :
        it being generally supposed that the jurisdiction given was construc-
        tively limited to cases of a Judiciary nature—.” 341
             This passage, and the language of Article III, § 2, makes clear
        that the Framers did not intend for federal judges to roam at large
        in construing the Constitution and laws of the United States, but
        rather preferred and provided for resolution of disputes arising in
        a “judicial” manner. This interpretation is reenforced by the refusal
        of the Convention to assign the judges the extra-judicial functions
        which some members of the Convention—Madison and Wilson no-
        tably—conceived for them. Thus, for instance, the Convention four
        times voted down proposals for judges, along with executive branch
        officials, to sit on a council of revision with the power to veto laws
        passed by Congress.342 A similar fate befell suggestions that the Chief
        Justice be a member of a privy council to assist the President 343
        and that the President or either House of Congress be able to re-
        quest advisory opinions of the Supreme Court.344 The intent of the
        Framers in rejecting the latter proposal was early effectuated when
            341  2 M. Farrand, supra at 430.
            342  The proposal was contained in the Virginia Plan. 1 id. at 21. For the four
        rejections, see id. at 97–104, 108–10, 138–40, 2 id. at 73–80, 298.
             343 Id. at 328–29, 342–44. Although a truncated version of the proposal was re-

        ported by the Committee on Detail, id. at 367, the Convention never took it up.
             344 Id. at 340–41. The proposal was referred to the Committee on Detail and

        never heard of again.
