records, correct the errors of the clerk or other court officers, and
to rectify defects or omissions in their records even after the lapse
of a term, subject, however, to the qualification that the power to
amend records conveys no power to create a record or re-create one
of which no evidence exists.334

Appointment of Referees, Masters, and Special Aids
    The administration of insolvent enterprises, investigations into
the reasonableness of public utility rates, and the performance of
other judicial functions often require the special services of mas-
ters in chancery, referees, auditors, and other special aids. The prac-
tice of referring pending actions to a referee was held in Heckers v.
Fowler 335 to be coequal with the organization of the federal courts.
In the leading case of Ex parte Peterson,336 a United States district
court appointed an auditor with power to compel the attendance of
witnesses and the production of testimony. The court authorized him
to conduct a preliminary investigation of facts and file a report thereon
for the purpose of simplifying the issues for the jury. This action
was neither authorized nor prohibited by statute. In sustaining the
action of the district judge, Justice Brandeis, speaking for the Court,
declared: “Courts have (at least in the absence of legislation to the
contrary) inherent power to provide themselves with appropriate in-
struments required for the performance of their duties. . . . This
power includes authority to appoint persons unconnected with the
court to aid judges in the performance of specific judicial duties, as
they may arise in the progress of a cause.” 337 The power to appoint
auditors by federal courts sitting in equity has been exercised from
their very beginning, and here it was held that this power is the
same whether the court sits in law or equity.

Power to Admit and Disbar Attorneys
    Subject to general statutory qualifications for attorneys, the power
of the federal courts to admit and disbar attorneys rests on the com-
mon law from which it was originally derived. According to Chief
Justice Taney, it was well settled by the common law that “it rests
exclusively with the Court to determine who is qualified to become
one of its officers, as an attorney and counselor, and for what cause
he ought to be removed.” Such power, he made clear, however, “is
not an arbitrary and despotic one, to be exercised at the pleasure
of the Court, or from passion, prejudice, or personal hostility; but
   334 Gagnon v. United States, 193 U.S. 451, 458 (1904).
   335 69 U.S. (2 Wall.) 123, 128–129 (1864).
   336 253 U.S. 300 (1920).
   337 253 U.S. at 312.
