agency to the relationship. In Hollingsworth v. Perry,416 the Court
considered the question of whether the official proponents of Propo-
sition 8,417 a state proposition which amended the California Con-
stitution to define marriage as a union between a man and a woman,
had standing to defend the constitutionality of the provision. Al-
though the proponents were authorized by California law to defend
the proposition,418 the Court found that this authorization, by it-
self, was insufficient to create standing. The concern, according to
the Court, was that, despite the state’s provision of such authority
to the proponents, the proponents were still acting as private indi-
viduals, not as state officials 419 or as agents of the state.420 Be-
cause the proponents had no official role in enforcing of California
law, the Court held that they had no “personal stake” that was dis-
tinguishable from the general interest of every citizen of Califor-
nia.421
    In a number of cases, the Court has denied standing appar-
ently in the belief that the assertion of harm is too speculative or
too remote to credit.422 This limitation seems particularly challeng-

    416   570 U.S. ___, No. 12–144, slip op. (2013).
    417  Under Cal. Elec. Code Ann. §342, “ ‘[p]roponents of an initiative or referen-
dum measure’ means . . . the elector or electors who submit the text of a proposed
initiative or referendum to the Attorney General . . . ; or . . . the person or persons
who publish a notice or intention to circulate petitions, or, where publication is not
required, who file petitions with the elections official or legislative body.”
     418 California’s governor and state and local officials declined to defend Proposi-

tion 8 in federal district court, so the proponents were allowed to intervene. After
the district court held the proposition unconstitutional, the government officials elected
not to appeal, so the proponents did. The federal court of appeals certified a ques-
tion to the California Supreme Court as to whether the official proponents of the
proposition had the authority to assert the state’s interest in defending the constitu-
tionality of Proposition 8, which the was answered in the affirmative.
     419 See Karcher v. May, 484 U.S. 72 (1987) (holding that New Jersey state legis-

lators, as authorized by state law, could intervene in a suit to defend the constitu-
tionality of a New Jersey law).
     420 The Court noted that an essential feature of agency is the principal’s right

to control the agent’s actions. Here, the proponents “decided what arguments to make
and how to make them.” Hollingsworth, 570 U.S. ___, No. 12–144, slip op. at 15.
The Court also noted that the proponents were not elected to their position, took no
oath, had no fiduciary duty to the people of California, and were not subject to re-
moval. Id.
     421 As noted previously, the Court has been wary of granting standing to per-

sons who alleged threats or harm to interests that they share with members of the
community at large. See “Generalized or Widespread Injuries,” supra.
     422 E.g., Laird v. Tatum, 408 U.S. 1 (1972) (“allegations of a subjective ‘chill’ are

not an adequate substitute for a claim of specific present objective harm or a threat
of specific future harm.”). See also O’Shea v. Littleton, 414 U.S. 488, 497 (1974) (no
“sufficient immediacy and reality” to allegations of future injury that rested on the
likelihood that plaintiffs will again be subjected to racially discriminatory enforce-
ment and administration of criminal justice); California Bankers Ass’n v. Shultz, 416
U.S. 21, 73 (1974) (plaintiffs allege that they intend to engage in currency transac-
tions that the Secretary of the Treasury’s regulations will require them to report,
