    Taxpayer Suits.—Save for a narrow exception, standing is also
lacking when a litigant attempts to sue to contest governmental ac-
tion that he claims injures him as a taxpayer. In Frothingham v.
Mellon,386 the Court denied standing to a taxpayer suing to re-
strain disbursements of federal money to those states that chose to
participate in a program to reduce maternal and infant mortality;
her claim was that Congress lacked power to appropriate funds for
those purposes and that the appropriations would increase her taxes
in future years in an unconstitutional manner. Noting that a fed-
eral taxpayer’s “interest in the moneys of the Treasury . . . is com-
paratively minute and indeterminate” and that “the effect upon fu-
ture taxation, of any payment out of the funds . . . [is] remote,
fluctuating and uncertain,” the Court ruled that plaintiff had failed
to allege the type of “direct injury” necessary to confer standing.387
    Taxpayers were found to have standing, however, in Flast v.
Cohen,388 to contest the expenditure of federal moneys to assist
religious-affiliated organizations. The Court asserted that the an-
swer to the question whether taxpayers have standing depends on
whether the circumstances of each case demonstrate that there is
a logical nexus between the status asserted and the claim sought
to be adjudicated. First, there must be a logical link between the
status of taxpayer and the type of legislative enactment attacked;
this means that a taxpayer must allege the unconstitutionality only
of exercises of congressional power under the taxing and spending
clause of Article I, § 8, rather than also of incidental expenditure of
funds in the administration of an essentially regulatory statute. Sec-
ond, there must be a logical nexus between the status of taxpayer
and the precise nature of the constitutional infringement alleged;
this means that the taxpayer must show that the challenged enact-
ment exceeds specific constitutional limitations imposed upon the
exercise of the taxing and spending power, rather than simply argu-
ing that the enactment is generally beyond the powers delegated to
Congress. Both Frothingham and Flast met the first test, because
they attacked a spending program. Flast met the second test, be-
cause the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment operates
as a specific limitation upon the exercise of the taxing and spend-
presents an insuperable jurisdictional obstacle.” The Court, however, found that “EPA’s
steadfast refusal to regulate greenhouse gas emissions presents a risk of harm to
Massachusetts that is both ‘actual’ and ‘imminent.’ ” Id. at 517, 521.
     386 Usually cited as Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U.S. 447 (1923), the two suits

having been consolidated.
     387 262 U.S. at 487, 488. In Hein v. Freedom from Religion Foundation, Inc.,

127 S. Ct. 2553, 2559 (2007), the Court added that, “if every federal taxpayer could
sue to challenge any Government expenditure, the federal courts would cease to func-
tion as courts of law and would be cast in the role of general complaint bureaus.”
     388 392 U.S. 83 (1968).
