ing in certain contexts, such as national security, where the extent
of harm may be unknown to the party affected.423 In Clapper v. Am-
nesty International USA, the Court insisted that plaintiffs show that
the threatened injury—monitoring their international communica-
tions illegally—was “certainly impending”; showing that there was
an “objectively reasonable likelihood” of prospective injury was in-
sufficient.424 Also, plaintiffs were not allowed, absent “certainly im-
pending” harm, to bypass the imminence requirement by arguing
that they had incurred costs (e.g., travel expenses to conduct in per-
son conversations abroad in lieu of conducting less costly electronic
communications that might be more susceptible to surveillance) to
guard against “reasonably possible” future harm.
     Of increasing importance are causation and redressability, the
second and third elements of standing, recently developed and held
to be of constitutional requisite. Under the former, there must be a
causal connection between the injury and the conduct complained
of; that is, the Court insists that the plaintiff show that “but for”
the action, she would not have been injured. Under the latter, the
but make no additional allegation that any of the information required by the Sec-
retary will tend to incriminate them); Rizzo v. Goode, 423 U.S. 362, 372 (1976) (“in-
dividual respondents’ claim to ‘real and immediate’ injury rests not upon what the
named petitioners might do to them in the future—such as set bond on the basis of
race [as was alleged in O’Shea, supra]—but upon what one of a small, unnamed
minority of policemen might do to them in the future because of that unknown po-
liceman’s perception of departmental disciplinary procedures”); Summers v. Earth
Island Institute, 129 S. Ct. 1142, 1151 (2009) (“deprivation of a procedural right [the
right to comment on federal agency proposed action] without some concrete interest
that is affected by the deprivation—a procedural right in vacuo—is insufficient to
create Article III standing”). In City of Los Angeles v. Lyons, 461 U.S. 95 (1983), the
Court held that victim of a police choke hold seeking injunctive relief was unable to
show sufficient likelihood of recurrence as to him. But see Davis v. Federal Election
Commission, 128 S. Ct. 2759, 2769 (2008), in which the Court held that “the injury
required for standing need not be actualized. A party facing prospective injury has
standing to sue where the threatened injury is real, immediate, and direct.” In this
case, a statute provided that, if a political candidate declares that he will “self-
finance,” then his opponent, if he qualifies, may receive individual contributions be-
yond the normal limit. A self-financing candidate challenged the statute after he had
declared himself to be self-financing, but before his opponent had qualified for the
higher contribution limit; the Court found that the self-financing candidate faced “a
realistic and impending threat of direct injury” adequate for standing. Id.
     423 See Clapper v. Amnesty International USA, 568 U.S. ___, No. 11–1025, slip

op. (2013). In Clapper, when defense attorneys, human rights organizations, and oth-
ers challenged prospective, surreptitious surveillance of the communications of cer-
tain foreigners abroad under the new FISA Amendments Act, the Court found a lack
of standing because the plaintiffs failed to show, inter alia, what the government’s
targeting practices would be, what legal authority the government would use to moni-
tor any of the plaintiffs’ overseas clients or contacts, whether any approved surveil-
lance would be successful, and whether the plaintiffs’ own communications from within
the United States would incidentally be acquired.
     424 568 U.S. ___, No. 11–1025, slip op. at 10–11 (2013). In adopting a “certainly

impending” standard, the five-Justice majority conceded that the cases had not uni-
formly required literal certainty. Id at 15 n.5.
