                    RIGHT OF CITIZENS TO VOTE


                       FIFTEENTH AMENDMENT

    SECTIONS 1     AND   2. The right of citizens of the United States
to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or
by any State on account of race, color, or previous condition of
servitude.
    The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by ap-
propriate legislation.
               ABOLITION OF SUFFRAGE QUALIFICATIONS ON
                             BASIS OF RACE

        Adoption and Judicial Enforcement
            Adoption.—The final decision of Congress not to include any-
        thing relating to the right to vote in the Fourteenth Amendment,
        aside from the provisions of § 2,1 left the issue of Negro suffrage
        solely with the states, and Northern states were generally as loath
        as Southern to grant the ballot to African-Americans, both the newly
        freed and those who had never been slaves.2 But, in the second ses-
        sion of the 39th Congress, the right to vote was extended to African-
        Americans by statute in the District of Columbia and the territo-
        ries, and the seceded states as a condition of readmission had to
        guarantee Negro suffrage.3 Following the election of President Grant,
        the “lame duck” third session of the Fortieth Congress sent the pro-
        posed Fifteenth Amendment to the states for ratification. The struggle
        was intense because Congress was divided into roughly three fac-
        tions: those who opposed any federal constitutional guarantee of Ne-
        gro suffrage, those who wanted to go beyond a limited guarantee
        and enact universal male suffrage, including abolition of all educa-
        tional and property-holding tests, and those who wanted or who were
            1 See discussion under “Apportionment of Representation,” supra. Of course, the

        Equal Protection Clause has been extensively used by the Court to protect the right
        to vote. See “Fundamental Interests: The Political Process,” supra.
            2 W. GILLETTE, THE RIGHT TO VOTE: POLITICS AND THE PASSAGE OF THE FIFTEENTH AMEND-

        MENT 25–28 (1965).
            3 Id. at 29–31; ch. 6, 14 Stat. 375 (1866) (District of Columbia); ch. 15, 14 Stat.

        379 (1867) (territories); ch. 36, 14 Stat. 391 (1867) (admission of Nebraska to state-
        hood upon condition of guaranteeing against racial qualifications in voting); ch. 153,
        14 Stat. 428 (1867) (First Reconstruction Act).
