ministering a trust for the benefit of persons who can trace their
ancestry to Hawaiian inhabitants of 1778.9
     Grandfather Clauses.—Until quite recently, the history of the
Fifteenth Amendment has been largely a record of belated judicial
condemnation of various state efforts to disenfranchise African-
Americans either overtly through statutory enactment or covertly
through inequitable administration of electoral laws and toleration
of discriminatory membership practices of political parties. Of sev-
eral devices that have been held unconstitutional, one of the first
was the “grandfather clause.” Beginning in 1895, several states en-
acted temporary laws whereby persons who had been voters, or de-
scendants of those who had been voters, on January 1, 1867, could
be registered notwithstanding their inability to meet any literacy
requirement. Unable because of the date to avail themselves of the
exemption, African-Americans were disabled to vote on grounds of
illiteracy or through discriminatory administration of literacy tests,
while illiterate whites were permitted to register without taking any
tests. With the achievement of the intended result, most states per-
mitted their laws to lapse, but Oklahoma’s grandfather clause had
been enacted as a permanent amendment to the state constitution.
A unanimous Court condemned the device as recreating and per-
petuating “the very conditions which the [Fifteenth] Amendment was
intended to destroy.” 10
     The Court did not experience any difficulty in voiding a subse-
quent Oklahoma statute of 1916 that provided that all persons, ex-
cept those who voted in 1914, who were qualified to vote in 1916
but who failed to register between April 30 and May 11, 1916, with
some exceptions for sick and absent persons who were given an ad-
ditional brief period to register, should be perpetually disenfran-
chised. The Fifteenth Amendment, Justice Frankfurter declared for
the Court, nullified “sophisticated as well as simple-minded modes
of discrimination. It hits onerous procedural requirements which ef-
fectively handicap exercise of the franchise by the colored race al-
though the abstract right to vote may remain unrestricted as to race.” 11
The impermissible effect of the statute, the Court said, was auto-
matically to continue as permanent voters, without their being obliged
to register again, all white persons who were on registration lists
in 1914 by virtue of the previously invalidated grandfather clause,
whereas African-Americans, prevented from registering by that clause,
had been afforded only a 20-day registration opportunity to avoid
permanent disenfranchisement.
   9 Rice v. Cayetano, 528 U.S. 495, 514 (2000).
   10 Guinn v. United States, 238 U.S. 347 (1915).
   11 Lane v. Wilson, 307 U.S. 268, 275 (1939).
