in that period by obtaining the approval of the Attorney General or
a three-judge court in the District of Columbia.55
     The Supreme Court upheld and expansively applied these laws.
In United States v. Mississippi,56 it held that the Attorney General
was properly authorized to sue for preventive relief to protect the
right of citizens to vote, that the state could be sued, and that vari-
ous election officers were defendants and the suit could not be de-
feated by the resignation of various officers. In Louisiana v. United
States,57 the Court upheld a lower federal court’s judgment voiding
an “interpretation test” that required an applicant to interpret a
section of the state or federal constitution to the satisfaction of the
voting registrar. The test was unconstitutional because it vested vast
discretion in the registrars to determine qualifications, it imposed
no definite and objective standards for administration of the tests,
and it had been administered so as to disqualify African-Americans
and qualify whites. The Court also affirmed the lower court’s de-
cree invalidating imposition of a new objective test for new voters
unless the state required all present voters to reregister so that all
voters were tested by the same standards.
     But, it was in upholding the constitutionality of the 1965 Act
in South Carolina v. Katzenbach that the Court sketched in the out-
lines of a broad power in Congress to enforce the Fifteenth Amend-
ment.58 Although § 1 authorized the courts to strike down state stat-
utes and procedures that denied the vote on the basis of race, the
Court held, § 2 authorized Congress to go beyond proscribing cer-
tain discriminatory statutes and practices to “enforcing” the guar-
antee by any rational means at its disposal. The standard was the
same as that used under the “necessary and proper” clause support-
ing other congressional legislation. Congress was therefore justified
in deciding that certain areas of the nation were the primary loca-
tions of voting discrimination and in directing its remedial legisla-
tion to those areas. Congress chose a rational formula based on the
existence of voting tests that could be used to discriminate and based
on low registration or voting rates demonstrating the likelihood that
the tests had been so used; it could properly suspend for a period
all literacy tests in the affected areas upon findings that they had
been administered discriminatorily and that illiterate whites had
    55 The Act also provided for the appointment of federal examiners who could

register persons meeting nondiscriminatory state qualifications who then must be
permitted to vote.
    56 380 U.S. 128 (1965).
    57 380 U.S. 145 (1965). See also United States v. Thomas, 362 U.S. 58 (1960);

United States v. Alabama, 362 U.S. 602 (1960); Alabama v. United States, 371 U.S.
37 (1962).
    58 383 U.S. 301 (1966).
