ognition under the full faith and credit clause and the acts of Con-
gress; the difference between the cases consisted solely in the fact
that in the Atherton case the husband had driven the wife from
their joint home by his conduct, while in the Haddock case he had
deserted her. The court that granted the divorce in Atherton v. Atherton
was held to have had jurisdiction of the marriage status, with the
result that the proceeding was one in rem and hence required only
service by publication upon the respondent. Haddock’s suit, on the
contrary, was held to be as to the wife in personam and so to re-
quire personal service upon her or her voluntary appearance, nei-
ther of which had been had; although, notwithstanding this, the de-
cree in the latter case was held to be valid in the state where obtained
because of the state’s inherent power to determine the status of its
own citizens. The upshot was a situation in which a man and a
woman, when both were in Connecticut, were divorced; when both
were in New York, were married; and when the one was in Connecti-
cut and the other in New York, the former was divorced and the
latter married. In Atherton v. Atherton the Court had earlier ac-
knowledged that “a husband without a wife, or a wife without a
husband, is unknown to the law.”
    The practical difficulties and distresses likely to result from such
anomalies were pointed out by critics of the decision at the time.
In point of fact, they have been largely avoided, because most of
the state courts have continued to give judicial recognition and full
faith and credit to one another’s divorce proceedings on the basis
of the older idea that a divorce proceeding is one in rem, and that
if the applicant is bona fide domiciled in the state the court has
jurisdiction in this respect. Moreover, until the second of the Wil-
liams v. North Carolina cases 51 was decided in 1945, there had not
been manifested the slightest disposition to challenge judicially the
power of the states to determine what shall constitute domicile for
divorce purposes. A few years before, the Court in Davis v. Davis 52
rejected contentions adverse to the validity of a Virginia decree of
which enforcement was sought in the District of Columbia. In this
case, a husband, after having obtained in the District a decree of
separation subject to payment of alimony, established years later a
residence in Virginia and sued there for a divorce. Personally served
in the District, where she continued to reside, the wife filed a plea
denying that her husband was a resident of Virginia and averred
that he was guilty of a fraud on the court in seeking to establish a
residence for purposes of jurisdiction. In ruling that the Virginia
decree, granting to the husband an absolute divorce minus any ali-
   51   317 U.S. 287 (1942) 325 U.S. 226 (1945).
   52   305 U.S. 32 (1938).
