     Cases Following Williams II.—Fears registered by the dis-
senters in the second Williams case that it might undermine the
stability of all divorces and that the court of each forum state, by
its own independent determination of domicile, might refuse recog-
nition of foreign decrees, were temporarily set at rest by Sherrer v.
Sherrer,59 which required Massachusetts, a state of domiciliary ori-
gin, to accord full faith and credit to a 90-day Florida decree that
the husband had contested. The husband, upon receiving notice by
mail, retained Florida counsel who entered a general appearance
and denied all allegations in the complaint, including the wife’s resi-
dence. At the hearing, the husband, though present in person and
by counsel, did not offer evidence in rebuttal of the wife’s proof of
her Florida residence, and, when the Florida court ruled that she
was a bona fide resident, the husband did not appeal. Because the
findings of the requisite jurisdictional facts, unlike those in the sec-
ond Williams case, were made in proceedings in which the defen-
dant appeared and participated, the requirements of full faith and
credit were held to bar him from collaterally attacking such find-
ings in a suit instituted by him in his home state of Massachu-
setts, particularly in the absence of proof that the divorce decree
was subject to such collateral attack in a Florida court. Having failed
to take advantage of the opportunities afforded him by his appear-
ance in the Florida proceeding, the husband was thereafter pre-
cluded from relitigating in another state the issue of his wife’s do-
micile already passed upon by the Florida court.
    In Coe v. Coe,60 embracing a similar set of facts, the Court ap-
plied like reasoning to reach a similar result. Massachusetts again

tion, to be exercised when the denial [of credit] strikes its sensibilities as wrong, by
some not stated standard. . . . There will be no ‘weighing’ [of evidence]. There will
be only examination for sufficiency, with the limits marked by ‘scintillas’ and the
like.” 325 U.S. at 255, 258, 259, 251.
      No less disposed to prophesy undesirable results from this decision was Justice
Black whose dissenting opinion Justice Douglas joined:
      “[T]oday, as to divorce decrees, [the Full Faith and Credit Clause] . . . has be-
come a nationally disruptive force. . . . [T]he Court has in effect [held] . . . that ‘the
full faith and credit clause does not apply to actions for divorce, and that the states
alone have the right to determine what effect shall be given to the decrees of other
states in this class of cases.’ . . . If the Court is today abandoning that principle
. . . that a marriage validly consummated under one state’s laws is valid in every
other state [, then a] . . . consequence is to subject people to criminal prosecutions
for adultery and bigamy merely because they exercise their constitutional right to
pass from a state in which they were validly married on to another state which
refuses to recognize their marriage. Such a consequence runs counter to the basic
guarantees of our federal union.” 325 U.S. at 264, 265.
      59 334 U.S. 343 (1948).
      60 334 U.S. 378 (1948). In a dissenting opinion filed in Sherrer v. Sherrer, but

applicable also to Coe v. Coe, Justice Frankfurter, with Justice Murphy concurring,
asserted his inability to accept the proposition advanced by the majority that “re-
