was compelled to recognize the validity of a six-week Nevada de-
cree obtained by a husband who had left Massachusetts after a court
of that state had refused him a divorce and had granted his wife
separate support. In the Nevada proceeding, the wife appeared per-
sonally and by counsel filed a cross-complaint for divorce, admitted
the husband’s residence, and participated personally in the proceed-
ings. After finding that it had jurisdiction of the plaintiff, defen-
dant, and the subject matter involved, the Nevada court granted
the wife a divorce, which was valid, final, and not subject to collat-
eral attack under Nevada law. The husband married again, and on
his return to Massachusetts, his ex-wife petitioned the Massachu-
setts court to adjudge him in contempt for failing to make pay-
ments for her separate support under the earlier Massachusetts de-
cree. Inasmuch as there was no intimation that under Massachusetts
law a decree of separate support would survive a divorce, recogni-
tion of the Nevada decree as valid accordingly necessitated a rejec-
tion of the ex-wife’s contention.
    Appearing to review Williams II, and significant for the social
consequences produced by the result it decreed, is Rice v. Rice.61 To
determine the widowhood status of the party litigants in relation
to inheritance of property of a husband who had deserted his first
wife in Connecticut, had obtained an ex parte divorce in Nevada,
and after remarriage, had died without ever returning to Connecti-
cut, the first wife, joining the second wife and the administrator of
his estate as defendants, petitioned a Connecticut court for a de-
claratory judgment. After having placed upon the first wife the bur-
den of proving that the decedent had not acquired a bona fide do-
micile in Nevada, and after giving proper weight to the claims of
power by the Nevada court, the Connecticut court concluded that
the evidence sustained the contentions of the first wife, and in so
gardless of how overwhelming the evidence may have been that the asserted domi-
cile in the State offering bargain-counter divorces was a sham, the home State of
the parties is not permitted to question the matter if the form of a controversy has
been gone through.” 334 U.S. at 377.
     61 336 U.S. 674 (1949). Of four justices dissenting, Black, Douglas, Rutledge, and

Jackson, Justice Jackson alone filed a written opinion. To him the decision was “an
example of the manner in which, in the law of domestic relations, ‘confusion now
hath made his masterpiece,’ . . . I think that the judgment of the Connecticut court,
but for the first Williams case and its progeny, might properly have held that the
Rice divorce decree was void for every purpose because it was rendered by a state
court which never obtained jurisdiction of the nonresident defendant and which had
no power to reach into another state and summon her before it. But if we adhere to
the holdings that the Nevada court had power over her for the purpose of blasting
her marriage and opening the way to a successor, I do not see the justice of invent-
ing a compensating confusion in the device of divisible divorce by which the parties
are half-bound and half-free and which permits Rice to have a wife who cannot be-
come his widow and to leave a widow who was no longer his wife.” Id. at 676, 679–
680.
