mony payment, was enforceable in the District, the Court stated
that in view of the wife’s failure, while in Virginia litigating her
husband’s status to sue, to answer the husband’s charges of willful
desertion, it would be unreasonable to hold that the husband’s do-
micile in Virginia was not sufficient to entitle him to a divorce ef-
fective in the District. The finding of the Virginia court on domicile
and jurisdiction was declared to bind the wife. Davis v. Davis is
distinguishable from the Williams v. North Carolina decisions in that
in the former determination of the jurisdictional prerequisite of do-
micile was made in a contested proceeding whereas in the Wil-
liams cases it was not.
     Williams I and Williams II.—In Williams I and Williams II,
the husband of one marriage and the wife of another left North Caro-
lina, obtained six-week divorce decrees in Nevada, married there,
and resumed their residence in North Carolina where both previ-
ously had been married and domiciled. Prosecuted for bigamy, the
defendants relied upon their Nevada decrees and won the prelimi-
nary round of this litigation, that is, in Williams I,53 when a major-
ity of the Justices, overruling Haddock v. Haddock, declaring that
in this case, the Court must assume that the petitioners for di-
vorce had a bona fide domicile in Nevada and not that their Ne-
vada domicile was a sham. “[E]ach State, by virtue of its command
over the domiciliaries and its large interest in the institution of mar-
riage, can alter within its own borders the marriage status of the
spouse domiciled there, even though the other spouse is absent. There
is no constitutional barrier if the form and nature of substituted
service meet the requirements of due process.” Accordingly, a de-
cree granted by Nevada to one, who, it is assumed, is at the time
bona fide domiciled therein, is binding upon the courts of other states,
including North Carolina in which the marriage was performed and
where the other party to the marriage is still domiciled when the
divorce was decreed. In view of its assumptions, which it justified
on the basis of an inadequate record, the Court did not here pass
upon the question whether North Carolina had the power to refuse
full faith and credit to a Nevada decree because it was based on
residence rather than domicile or because, contrary to the findings
of the Nevada court, North Carolina found that no bona fide domi-
cile had been acquired in Nevada.54
     Presaging what ruling the Court would make when it did get
around to passing upon the latter question, Justice Jackson, dissent-
ing in Williams I, protested that “this decision repeals the divorce
laws of all the states and substitutes the law of Nevada as to all
   53   317 U.S. 287, 298–99 (1942).
   54   317 U.S. at 302.
