doing, it was upheld by the Supreme Court. Sherrer v. Sherrer and
Coe v. Coe, previously discussed, were declared not to be in point,
because no personal service had been made upon the first wife, nor
had she in any way participated in the Nevada proceedings. She
was not, therefore, precluded from challenging the findings of the
Nevada court that the decedent was, at the time of the divorce, do-
miciled in that state.62
     Claims for Alimony or Property in Forum State.—In Esenwein
v. Commonwealth,63 decided on the same day as the second Wil-
liams case, the Supreme Court also sustained a Pennsylvania court
in its refusal to recognize an ex parte Nevada decree on the ground
that the husband who obtained it never acquired a bona fide domi-
cile in the latter state. In this instance, the husband and wife had
separated in Pennsylvania, where the wife was granted a support
order; after two unsuccessful attempts to win a divorce in that state,
the husband departed for Nevada. Upon the receipt of a Nevada
decree, the husband thereafter established a residence in Ohio and
filed an action in Pennsylvania for total relief from the support or-
der. In a concurring opinion, in which he was joined by Justice Black,
Justice Douglas stressed the “basic difference between the problem
of marital capacity and the problem of support,” and stated that it
was “not apparent that the spouse who obtained the decree can de-
feat an action for maintenance or support in another State by show-
ing that he was domiciled in the State which awarded him the di-
vorce decree,” unless the other spouse appeared or was personally
served. “The State where the deserted wife is domiciled has a deep
concern in the welfare of the family deserted by the head of the
household. If he is required to support his former wife, he is not
made a bigamist and the offspring of his second marriage are not
bastardized.” Or, as Justice Rutledge succinctly stated in a concur-
ring opinion, “the jurisdictional foundation for a decree in one state

     62 Vermont violated the clause in sustaining a collateral attack on a Florida di-

vorce decree, the presumption of Florida’s jurisdiction over the cause and the par-
ties not having been overcome by extrinsic evidence or the record of the case. Cook
v. Cook, 342 U.S. 126 (1951). Sherrer and Coe were relied upon. There seems, there-
fore, to be no doubt of their continued vitality.
     A Florida divorce decree was also at the bottom of another case in which the
daughter of a divorced man by his first wife and his legatee under his will sought to
attack his divorce in the New York courts and thereby indirectly his third marriage.
The Court held that, because the attack would not have been permitted in Florida
under the doctrine of res judicata, it was not permissible under the Full Faith and
Credit Clause in New York. On the whole, it appears that the principle of res judicata
is slowly winning out against the principle of domicile. Johnson v. Muelberger, 340
U.S. 581 (1951).
     63 325 U.S. 279 (1945).
