constitutional course of balancing coordinate States’ competing in-
terests to resolve conflicts of laws under the Full Faith and Credit
Clause.” 111
    Transitory Actions: Death Statutes.—The initial effort in this
direction was made in connection with transitory actions based on
statute. Earlier, such actions had rested upon the common law, which
was fairly uniform throughout the states, so that there was usu-
ally little discrepancy between the law under which the plaintiff from
another jurisdiction brought his action (lex loci) and the law under
which the defendant responded (lex fori). In the late 1870s, how-
ever, the states, abandoning the common law rule on the subject,
began passing laws that authorized the representatives of a dece-
dent whose death had resulted from injury to bring an action for
damages.112 The question at once presented itself whether, if such
an action was brought in a state other than that in which the in-
jury occurred, it was governed by the statute under which it arose
or by the law of the forum state, which might be less favorable to
the defendant. Nor was it long before the same question presented
itself with respect to transitory action ex contractu, where the con-
tract involved had been made under laws peculiar to the state where
made, and with those laws in view.
    Actions Upon Contract.—In Chicago & Alton R.R. v. Wiggins
Ferry Co.,113 the Court indicated that it was the law under which
the contract was made, not the law of the forum state, that should
govern. Its utterance on the point was, however, not merely dic-
tum, but was based on an error, namely, the false supposition that
the Constitution gives “acts” the same extraterritorial operation as
the Act of 1790 does “judicial records and proceedings.” Notwith-
standing which, this dictum is today the basis of “the settled rule”

    111  Franchise Tax Bd. of Cal. v. Hyatt, 538 U.S. 488, 498, 499 (2003).
    112  Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103 U.S. 11 (1881), was the first so-called “Death
Act” case to reach the Supreme Court. See also Stewart v. Baltimore & O.R.R., 168
U.S. 445 (1897). Even today the obligation of a state to furnish a forum for the de-
termination of death claims arising in another state under the laws thereof appears
to rest on a rather precarious basis. In Hughes v. Fetter, 341 U.S. 609 (1951), the
Court, by a narrow majority, held invalid under the full faith and credit clause a
statute of Wisconsin which, as locally interpreted, forbade its courts to entertain
suits of this nature; in First Nat’l Bank v. United Air Lines, 342 U.S. 396 (1952), a
like result was reached under an Illinois statute. More recently, the Court has ac-
knowledged that the Full Faith and Credit Clause does not compel the forum state,
in an action for wrongful death occurring in another jurisdiction, to apply a longer
period of limitations set out in the wrongful death statute of the state in which the
fatal injury was sustained. Wells v. Simonds Abrasive Co., 345 U.S. 514 (1953). Jus-
tices Jackson, Black, and Minton, in dissenting, advanced the contrary principle that
the clause requires that the law where the tort action arose should follow said ac-
tion in whatever forum it is pursued.
     113 119 U.S. 615 (1887).
