that the defendant in a transitory action is entitled to all the ben-
efits resulting from whatever material restrictions the statute un-
der which plaintiff ’s rights of action originated sets thereto, except
that courts of sister states cannot be thus prevented from taking
jurisdiction in such cases.114
     However, the modern doctrine permits a forum state with suffi-
cient contacts with the parties or the matter in dispute to follow
its own law. In Allstate Ins. Co. v. Hague,115 the decedent was a
Wisconsin resident who had died in an automobile accident within
Wisconsin near the Minnesota border in the course of his daily em-
ployment commute to Wisconsin. He had three automobile insur-
ance policies on three automobiles, each limited to $15,000. Follow-
ing his death, his widow and personal representative moved to
Minnesota, and she sued in that state. She sought to apply Minne-
sota law, under which she could “stack” or aggregate all three poli-
cies, permissible under Minnesota law but not allowed under Wis-
consin law, where the insurance contracts had been made. The Court,
in a divided opinion, permitted resort to Minnesota law, because of
the number of contacts the state had with the matter. On the other
hand, an earlier decision is in considerable conflict with Hague. There,
a life insurance policy was executed in New York, on a New York
insured, with a New York beneficiary. The insured died in New York,
and his beneficiary moved to Georgia and sued to recover on the
policy. The insurance company defended on the ground that the in-
sured, in the application for the policy, had made materially false
statements that rendered it void under New York law. The defense
was good under New York law, impermissible under Georgia law,
and Georgia’s decision to apply its own law was overturned, the Court
stressing the surprise to the parties of the resort to the law of an-
other state and the absence of any occurrence in Georgia to which
its law could apply.116
    Stockholder Corporation Relationship.—The protections of
the Full Faith and Credit Clause extend beyond transitory actions.
Some legal relationships are so complex, the Court holds, that the
law under which they were formed ought always to govern them as
long as they persist.117 One such relationship is that of a stock-
holder and his corporation. Hence, if a question arises as to the li-
ability of the stockholders of a corporation, the courts of the forum
state are required by the Full Faith and Credit Clause to deter-
     114 Northern Pacific R.R. v. Babcock, 154 U.S. 190 (1894); Atchison, T. & S.F.

Ry. v. Sowers, 213 U.S. 55, 67 (1909).
     115 449 U.S. 302 (1981). See also Clay v. Sun Ins. Office, 377 U.S. 179 (1964).
     116 John Hancock Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Yates, 299 U.S. 178 (1936).
     117 Modern Woodmen v. Mixer, 267 U.S. 544 (1925).
