cree by transferring custody from the paternal grandfather to the
mother. However, when, as is true in Virginia, agreements by par-
ents as to shared custody of a child do not bind the state’s courts,
the dismissal by a Virginia court of a habeas corpus petition insti-
tuted by a father to obtain custody was not res judicata in that state;
therefore, even if the Full Faith and Credit Clause were applicable
to child custody decrees, it would not require a South Carolina court,
in a custody suit instituted by the wife, to recognize a court order
not binding in Virginia.82
    Status of the Law.—The doctrine of divisible divorce, as devel-
oped by Justice Douglas in Estin v. Estin,83 may have become the
prevailing standard for determining the enforceability of foreign di-
vorce decrees. If this is the case, then it may be that an ex parte
divorce, founded upon acquisition of domicile by one spouse in the
state that granted it, is effective to destroy the marital status of
both parties in the state of domiciliary origin and probably in all
other states. The effect is to preclude subsequent prosecutions for
bigamy but not to alter rights as to property, alimony, or custody of
children in the state of domiciliary origin of a spouse who neither
was served nor appeared personally.
    In any event, the accuracy of these conclusions has not been
impaired by any decision of the Court since 1948. Thus, in Armstrong
v. Armstrong,84 an ex parte divorce decree obtained by the husband
in Florida was deemed to have been adequately recognized by an
Ohio court when, with both parties before it, it disposed of the wife’s
suit for divorce and alimony with a decree limited solely to an award
of alimony.85 Similarly, a New York court was held not bound by an
ex parte Nevada divorce decree, rendered without personal jurisdic-
tion over the wife, to the extent that it relieved the husband of all
marital obligations, and in an ex parte action for separation and
alimony instituted by the wife, it was competent to sequester the
husband’s property in New York to satisfy his obligations to the wife.86

    82 Ford v. Ford, 371 U.S. 187, 192–94 (1962). As part of a law dealing with pa-

rental kidnaping, Congress, in Pub. L. 96–611, 8(a), 94 Stat. 3569, 28 U.S.C. § 1738A,
required states to give full faith and credit to state court custody decrees provided
the original court had jurisdiction and is the home state of the child.
    83 334 U.S. 541 (1948).
    84 350 U.S. 568 (1956).
    85 Four Justices, Black, Douglas, Clark, and Chief Justice Warren, disputed the

Court’s contention that the Florida decree contained no ruling on the wife’s entitle-
ment to alimony and mentioned that for want of personal jurisdiction over the wife,
the Florida court was not competent to dispose of that issue. 350 U.S. at 575.
    86 Vanderbilt v. Vanderbilt, 354 U.S. 416 (1957). Two Justices dissented. Justice

Frankfurter was unable to perceive “why dissolution of the marital relation is not
so personal as to require personal jurisdiction over the absent spouse, while the de-
