cess,” said Chief Justice Stone, “is not entitled to full faith and credit
when sued upon in another jurisdiction.” 78
    An example of a custody case was one involving a Florida di-
vorce decree that was granted ex parte to a wife who had left her
husband in New York, where he was served by publication. The de-
cree carried with it an award of the exclusive custody of the child,
whom the day before the husband had secretly seized and brought
back to New York. The Court ruled that the decree was adequately
honored by a New York court when, in habeas corpus proceedings,
it gave the father rights of visitation and custody of the child dur-
ing stated periods and exacted a surety bond of the wife condi-
tioned on her delivery of the child to the father at the proper times,79
it having not been “shown that the New York court in modifying
the Florida decree exceeded the limits permitted under Florida laws.
There is therefore a failure of proof that the Florida decree re-
ceived less credit in New York than it had in Florida.”
    Answering a question left open in the preceding holding as to
the binding effect of the ex parte award, the Court more recently
acknowledged that, in a proceeding challenging a mother’s right to
retain custody of her children, a state is not required to give effect
to the decree of another state’s court, which had never acquired per-
sonal jurisdiction over the mother of her children, and which awarded
custody to the father as the result of an ex parte divorce action in-
stituted by him.80 In Kovacs v. Brewer,81 however, the Court indi-
cated that a finding of changed circumstances rendering obser-
vance of an absentee foreign custody decree inimical to the best
interests of the child is essential to sustain the validity of the fo-
rum court’s refusal to enforce a foreign decree, rendered with juris-
diction over all the parties but the child, and revising an initial de-
     78 327 U.S. at 228. An alimony case of a quite extraordinary pattern was that of

Sutton v. Leib, 342 U.S. 402 (1952). Because of the diverse citizenship of the par-
ties, who had once been husband and wife, the case was brought by the latter in a
federal court in Illinois. Her suit was to recover unpaid alimony that was to con-
tinue until her remarriage. To be sure, she had, as she confessed, remarried in Ne-
vada, but the marriage had been annulled in New York on the ground that the man
was already married, because his divorce from his previous wife was null and void,
she having neither entered a personal appearance nor been personally served. The
Court, speaking by Justice Reed, held that the New York annulment of the Nevada
marriage must be given full faith and credit in Illinois but left Illinois to decide for
itself the effect of the annulment upon the obligations of petitioner’s first husband.
     79 Halvey v. Halvey, 330 U.S. 610, 615 (1947).
     80 May v. Anderson, 345 U.S. 528 (1953). Justices Jackson, Reed, and Minton

dissented.
     81 356 U.S. 604 (1958). Rejecting the implication that recognition must be ac-

corded unless the circumstances have changed, Justice Frankfurter dissented on the
ground that in determining what is best for the welfare of the child, the forum court
cannot be bound by an absentee, foreign custody decree, “irrespective of whether
changes in circumstances are objectively provable.”
