association, sued in a Mississippi court to recover, as usurious, cer-
tain charges collected by the association, the usury law of Missis-
sippi rather than that of New York controlled. In this case, the loan
contract, which was negotiated in Mississippi subject to approval
by the New York office, did not expressly state that it was gov-
erned by New York law. Similarly, when the New York Life Insur-
ance Company, which had expressly stated in its application and
policy forms that they would be controlled by New York law, was
sued in Missouri on a policy sold to a resident thereof, the court of
that state was sustained in its application of Missouri, rather than
New York law.126 Also, in an action in a federal court in Texas to
collect the amount of a life insurance policy which had been made
in New York and later changed by instruments assigning beneficial
interest, it was held that questions (1) whether the contract re-
mained one governed by the law of New York with respect to rights
of assignees, rather than by the law of Texas, (2) whether the pub-
lic policy of Texas permits recovery by one named beneficiary who
has no beneficial interest in the life of the insured, and (3) whether
lack of insurable interest becomes material when the insurer ac-
knowledges liability and pays the money into court, were questions
of Texas law, to be decided according to Texas decisions.127 Simi-
larly, a state, by reason of its potential obligation to care for depen-
dents of persons injured or killed within its limits, is conceded to
have a substantial interest in insurance policies, wherever issued,
which may afford compensation for such losses; accordingly, it is com-
petent, by its own direct action statute, to grant the injured party
a direct cause of action against the insurer of the tortfeasor, and to
refuse to enforce the law of the state, in which the policy is issued
or delivered, which recognizes as binding a policy stipulation which
forbids direct actions until after the determination of the liability
of the insured tortfeasor.128
    Consistent with the latter holding are the following two involv-
ing mutual insurance companies. In Pink v. A.A.A. Highway Ex-



     126 New York Life Ins. Co. v. Cravens, 178 U.S. 389 (1900). See also American

Fire Ins. Co v. King Lumber Co., 250 U.S. 2 (1919).
     127 Griffin v. McCoach, 313 U.S. 498 (1941).
     128 Watson v. Employers Liability Corp., 348 U.S. 66 (1954). In Clay v. Sun Ins.

Office, 363 U.S. 207 (1960), three dissenters, Justices Black, and Douglas, and Chief
Justice Warren, would have resolved the constitutional issue which the Court avoided,
and would have sustained application of the forum state’s statute of limitations fix-
ing a period in excess of that set forth in the policy.
