press,129 the New York insurance commissioner, as a statutory liq-
uidator of an insolvent auto mutual company organized in New York,
sued resident Georgia policyholders in a Georgia court to recover
assessments alleged to be due by virtue of their membership in it.
The Supreme Court held that, although by the law of the state of
incorporation, policyholders of a mutual insurance company be-
come members thereof and as such liable to pay assessments ad-
judged to be required in liquidation proceedings in that state, the
courts of another state are not required to enforce such liability against
local resident policyholders who did not appear and were not per-
sonally served in the foreign liquidation proceedings but are free to
decide according to local law the questions whether, by entering into
the policies, residents became members of the company. Again, in
State Farm Ins. Co. v. Duel,130 the Court ruled that an insurance
company chartered in State A, which does not treat membership
fees as part of premiums, cannot plead denial of full faith and credit
when State B, as a condition of entry, requires the company to main-
tain a reserve computed by including membership fees as well as
premiums received in all states. Were the company’s contention ac-
cepted, “no State,” the Court observed, “could impose stricter finan-
cial standards for foreign corporations doing business within its bor-
ders than were imposed by the State of incorporation.” It is not
apparent, the Court added, that State A has an interest superior to
that of State B in the financial soundness and stability of insur-
ance companies doing business in State B.
    Workers’ Compensation Statutes.—Finally, the relationship of
employer and employee, insofar as the obligations of the one and
the rights of the other under worker’s compensation acts are con-
cerned, has been the subject of differing and confusing treatment.
In an early case, the injury occurred in New Hampshire, resulting
in death to a workman who had entered the defendant company’s
employ in Vermont, the home state of both parties. The Court re-
quired the New Hampshire courts to respect a Vermont statute which
precluded a worker from bringing a common-law action against his
employer for job related injuries where the employment relation was
formed in Vermont, prescribing a constitutional rule giving priority
to the place of the establishment of the employment relationship

    129 314 U.S. 201, 206–08 (1941). However, a decree of a Montana Supreme Court,

insofar as it permitted judgment creditors of a dissolved Iowa surety company to
levy execution against local assets to satisfy judgment, as against title to such as-
sets of the Iowa insurance commissioner as statutory liquidator and successor to
the dissolved company, was held to deny full faith and credit to the statutes of Iowa.
Clark v. Williard, 292 U.S. 112 (1934).
    130 324 U.S. 154, 159–60 (1945).
