        Faith and Credit Clause. Congress has the power under the clause
        to decree the effect that the statutes of one state shall have in other
        states. This being so, it does not seem extravagant to argue that
        Congress may under the clause describe a certain type of divorce
        and say that it shall be granted recognition throughout the Union
        and that no other kind shall. Or to speak in more general terms,
        Congress has under the clause power to enact standards whereby
        uniformity of state legislation may be secured as to almost any mat-
        ter in connection with which interstate recognition of private rights
        would be useful and valuable.

                          JUDGMENTS OF FOREIGN STATES
            Doubtless Congress, by virtue of its powers in the field of for-
        eign relations, might also lay down a mandatory rule regarding rec-
        ognition of foreign judgments in every court of the United States.
        At present the duty to recognize judgments even in national courts
        rests only on comity and is qualified in the judgment of the Su-
        preme Court, by a strict rule of parity.147

    SECTION 2. Clause 1. The Citizens of each State shall be en-
titled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several
States.

            STATE CITIZENSHIP: PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES

        Origin and Purpose
            “The primary purpose of this clause, like the clauses between
        which it is located . . . was to help fuse into one Nation a collec-
        tion of independent sovereign States.” 148 Precedent for this clause
             147 No right, privilege, or immunity is conferred by the Constitution in respect

        to judgments of foreign states and nations. Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Tremblay, 223 U.S.
        185 (1912). See also Hilton v. Guyot, 159 U.S. 113, 234 (1895), where a French judg-
        ment offered in defense was held not a bar to the suit. Four Justices dissented on
        the ground that “the application of the doctrine of res judicata does not rest in dis-
        cretion; and it is for the Government, and not for its courts, to adopt the principle
        of retorsion, if deemed under any circumstances desirable or necessary.” At the same
        sitting of the Court, an action in a United States circuit court on a Canadian judg-
        ment was sustained on the same ground of reciprocity, Ritchie v. McMullen, 159 U.S.
        235 (1895). See also Ingenohl v. Olsen & Co., 273 U.S. 541 (1927), where a decision
        of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands was reversed for refusal to enforce a
        judgment of the Supreme Court of the British colony of Hong Kong, which was ren-
        dered “after a fair trial by a court having jurisdiction of the parties.” Another in-
        stance of international cooperation in the judicial field is furnished by letters roga-
        tory. See 28 U.S.C. § 1781. Several States have similar provisions, 2 J. MOORE, DIGEST
        OF INTERNATIONAL LAW 108–109 (1906).
             148 Toomer v. Witsell, 334 U.S. 385, 395 (1948).
