    The question arises whether the application to date, not by the
Court alone but by Congress as well, of Article IV, § 1, can be said
to have met the expectations of its Framers. In the light of some
things said at the time of the framing of the clause, this may be
doubted. The protest was raised against the clause that, in vesting
Congress with power to declare the effect state laws should have
outside the enacting state, it enabled the new government to usurp
the powers of the states, but the objection went unheeded. The main
concern of the Convention, undoubtedly, was to render the judg-
ments of the state courts in civil cases effective throughout the Union.
Yet even this object has been by no means completely realized, ow-
ing to the doctrine of the Court, that before a judgment of a state
court can be enforced in a sister state, a new suit must be brought
on it in the courts of the latter, and the further doctrine that with
respect to such a suit, the judgment sued on is only evidence; the
logical deduction from this proposition is that the sister state is un-
der no constitutional compulsion to give it a forum. These doc-
trines were first clearly stated in McElmoyle and flowed directly from
the new states’ rights premises of the Court, but they are no longer
in harmony with the prevailing spirit of constitutional construction
nor with the needs of the times. Also, the clause seems always to
have been interpreted on the basis of the assumption that the term
“judicial proceedings” refers only to final judgments and does not
include intermediate processes and writs, but the assumption would
seem to be groundless, and if it is, then Congress has the power
under the clause to provide for the service and execution through-
out the United States of the judicial processes of the several states.
          SCOPE OF POWERS OF CONGRESS UNDER
                               PROVISION
     Under the present system, suit ordinarily must be brought where
the defendant, the alleged wrongdoer, resides, which means gener-
ally where no part of the transaction giving rise to the action took
place. What could be more irrational? “Granted that no state can
of its own volition make its process run beyond its borders . . . is it
unreasonable that the United States should by federal action be made
a unit in the manner suggested?” 146
     Indeed, there are few clauses of the Constitution, the merely
literal possibilities of which have been so little developed as the Full
in the field of conflicts . . . although the precise circumstances under which it will
regard itself as having jurisdiction for this purpose are far from clear.” Dodd, The
Power of the Supreme Court to Review State Decisions in the Field of Conflict of
Laws, 39 HARV. L. REV. 533, 562 (1926). It can hardly be said that the law has been
subsequently clarified on this point.
    146 Cook, The Power of Congress Under the Full Faith and Credit Clause, 28

YALE L.J. 421, 430 (1919).
