to the association’s charter embodied in the status of the domicili-
ary state as interpreted by the latter’s court. “The beneficiary cer-
tificate was not a mere contract to be construed and enforced accord-
ing to the laws of the State where it was delivered. Entry into
membership of an incorporated beneficiary society is more than a
contract; it is entering into a complex and abiding relation and the
rights of membership are governed by the law of the State of incor-
poration. [Hence] another State, wherein the certificate of member-
ship was issued, cannot attach to membership rights against the
society which are refused by the law of domicile.” Consistent with
that, the Court also held, in Order of Travelers v. Wolfe,123 that South
Dakota, in a suit brought therein by an Ohio citizen against an Ohio
benefit society, must give effect to a provision of the constitution of
the society prohibiting the bringing of an action on a claim more
than six months after disallowance by the society, notwithstanding
that South Dakota’s period of limitation was six years and that its
own statutes voided contract stipulations limiting the time within
which rights may be enforced. Objecting to these results, Justice
Black dissented on the ground that fraternal insurance companies
are not entitled, either by the language of the Constitution, or by
the nature of their enterprise, to such unique constitutional protec-
tion.
    Insurance Company, Building and Loan Association: Con-
tractual Relationships.—Whether or not distinguishable by na-
ture of their enterprise, stock and mutual insurance companies and
mutual building and loan associations, unlike fraternal benefit soci-
eties, have not been accorded the same unique constitutional pro-
tection; with few exceptions,124 they have had controversies arising
out of their business relationships settled by application of the law
of the forum state. In National Mutual B. & L. Ass’n v. Brahan,125
the principle applicable to these three forms of business organiza-
tions was stated as follows: where a corporation has become local-
ized in a state and has accepted the laws of the state as a condi-
tion of doing business there, it cannot abrogate those laws by
attempting to make contract stipulations, and there is no violation
of the Full Faith and Credit Clause in instructing a jury to find
according to local law notwithstanding a clause in a contract that
it should be construed according to the laws of another state.
    Thus, the Court held in Brahan, when a Mississippi borrower,
having repaid a mortgage loan to a New York building and loan
    123331 U.S. 586, 588–89, 637 (1947).
    124New York Life Ins. Co. v. Head, 234 U.S. 149 (1914); Aetna Life Ins. Co. v.
Dunken, 266 U.S. 389 (1924).
   125 193 U.S. 635 (1904).
