                           STATES’ RELATIONS


                                 ARTICLE IV

    SECTION 1. Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State
to the public Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other
State. And the Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Man-
ner in which such Acts, Records, and Proceedings shall be proved,
and the Effect thereof.
           SOURCES AND EFFECT OF FULL FAITH AND CREDIT

        Private International Law
            The historical background of the Full Faith and Credit Clause
        is furnished by the branch of private law that is variously termed
        “private international law,” “conflict of laws,” and “comity.” This branch
        comprises a body of rules, based largely on the writings of jurists
        and judicial decisions, in accordance with which the courts of one
        country, or “jurisdiction,” will ordinarily, in the absence of a local
        policy to the contrary, extend recognition and enforcement to rights
        claimed by individuals by virtue of the laws or judicial decisions of
        another country or “jurisdiction.” Most frequently applied examples
        of these rules include the following: the rule that a marriage that
        is good in the country where performed (lex loci) is good elsewhere;
        the rule that contracts are to be interpreted in accordance with the
        laws of the country where entered into (lex loci contractus) unless
        the parties clearly intended otherwise; the rule that immovables may
        be disposed of only in accordance with the law of the country where
        situated (lex rei sitae); 1 the converse rule that chattels adhere to
        the person of their owner and hence are disposable by him, even
        when located elsewhere, in accordance with the law of his domicile
        (lex domicilii); the rule that, regardless of where the cause arose,
        the courts of any country where personal service of the defendant
        can be effected will take jurisdiction of certain types of personal ac-
        tions—hence termed “transitory”—and accord such remedy as the
        lex fori affords. Still other rules, of first importance in the present
        connection, determine the recognition that the judgments of the courts
        of one country shall receive from those of another country.
           1 Clark v. Graham, 19 U.S. (6 Wheat.) 577 (1821), is an early case in which the

        Supreme Court enforced this rule.
