    So, even had the states of the Union remained in a mutual re-
lationship of entire independence, private claims originating in one
often would have been assured recognition and enforcement in the
others. The Framers felt, however, that the rules of private interna-
tional law should not be left among the states altogether on a basis
of comity and hence subject always to the overruling local policy of
the lex fori, but ought to be in some measure at least placed on the
higher plane of constitutional obligation. In fulfillment of this in-
tent, the Full Faith and Credit Clause was inserted, and Congress
was empowered to enact supplementary and enforcing legislation.2

  JUDGMENTS: EFFECT TO BE GIVEN IN FORUM STATE

In General
    Article IV, § 1, has had its principal operation in relation to judg-
ments. Embraced within the relevant discussions are two principal
classes of judgments. First, those in which the judgment involved
was offered as a basis of proceedings for its own enforcement out-
side the state where rendered, as for example, when an action for
debt is brought in the courts of State B on a judgment for money
damages rendered in State A; second, those in which the judgment
involved was offered, in conformance with the principle of res judicata,
in defense in a new or collateral proceeding growing out of the same
facts as the original suit, as for example, when a decree of divorce
granted in State A is offered as barring a suit for divorce by the
other party to the marriage in the courts of State B.
    The English courts and the different state courts in the United
States, while recognizing “foreign judgments in personam,” which
were reducible to money terms as affording a basis for actions in
debt, originally accorded them generally only the status of prima
facie evidence in support thereof, so that the merits of the original
controversy could always be opened. When offered in defense, on
the other hand, “foreign judgments in personam” were regarded as
conclusive upon everybody on the theory that, as stated by Chief
Justice Marshall, “it is a proceeding in rem, to which all the world
are parties.” 3 The pioneer case was Mills v. Duryee,4 decided in 1813.
In an action brought in the circuit court of the District of Colum-
bia, the equivalent of a state court for this purpose, on a judgment
from a New York court, the defendant endeavored to reopen the whole
     2 Congressional legislation under the Full Faith and Credit Clause, insofar as it

is pertinent to adjudication under the clause, is today embraced in 28 U.S.C. §§ 1738–
1739. See also 28 U.S.C. §§ 1740–1742.
     3 Mankin v. Chandler, 16 F. Cas. 625, 626 (No. 9030) (C.C.D. Va. 1823).
     4 11 U.S. (7 Cr.) 481 (1813). See also Everett v. Everett, 215 U.S. 203 (1909);

Insurance Company v. Harris, 97 U.S. 331 (1878).
