ing “clams, oysters or shells” in any of the waters of the state, on
board any vessel “not wholly owned by some person, inhabitant of
and actually residing in this State. . . . The inquiry is,” wrote Jus-
tice Washington, “what are the privileges and immunities of citi-
zens in the several States? We feel no hesitation in confining these
expressions to those privileges and immunities which are, in their
nature, fundamental; which belong, of right, to the citizens of all
free governments; and which have, at all times, been enjoyed by
the citizens of the several States which compose this Union . . . .” 181
He specified the following rights as answering this description: “Pro-
tection by the Government; the enjoyment of life and liberty, with
the right to acquire and possess property of every kind, and to pur-
sue and obtain happiness and safety; subject nevertheless to such
restraints as the government must justly prescribe for the general
good of the whole. The right of a citizen of one State to pass through,
or to reside in any other State, for purposes of trade, agriculture,
professional pursuits, or otherwise; to claim the benefits of the writ
of habeas corpus; to institute and maintain actions of any kind in
the courts of the State; to take, hold and dispose of property, either
real or personal; and an exemption from higher taxes or imposi-
tions than are paid by the other citizens of the State . . . .” 182
    After thus defining broadly the private and personal rights which
were protected, Justice Washington went on to distinguish them from
the right to a share in the public patrimony of the state. “[W]e can-
not accede” the opinion proceeds, “to the proposition . . . that, un-
der this provision of the Constitution, the citizens of the several
States are permitted to participate in all the rights which belong
exclusively to the citizens of any particular State, merely upon the
ground that they are enjoyed by those citizens; much less, that in
regulating the use of the common property of the citizens of such
State, the legislature is bound to extend to the citizens of all other
States the same advantages as are secured to their own citi-
zens.” 183 The right of a state to the fisheries within its borders he
then held to be in the nature of a property right, held by the state
“for the use of the citizens thereof ”; the state was under no obliga-
tion to grant “co-tenancy in the common property of the State, to
the citizens of all the other States.” 184 The holding of this case was
confirmed in McCready v. Virginia; 185 the logic of Geer v. Connecti-

   181 6 Fed. Cas. at 551–52.
   182 6 Fed. Cas. at 552.
   183 6 Fed. Cas. at 552.
   184 6 Fed. Cas. at 552.
   185 94 U.S. 391 (1877).
