synonymous,” wrote Justice Pitney, “. . . but a general taxing scheme
. . . if it discriminates against all non-residents, has the necessary
effect of including in the discrimination those who are citizens of
other States . . . .” 218 Where there were no discriminations be-
tween citizens and noncitizens, a state statute taxing the business
of hiring persons within the state for labor outside the state was
sustained.219
    The Court returned to the privileges-and-immunities restric-
tions upon disparate state taxation of residents and nonresidents
in Lunding v. New York Tax Appeals Tribunal.220 In this case, the
state denied nonresidents any deduction from taxable income for
alimony payments, although it permitted residents to deduct such
payments. Although it observed that approximate equality between
residents and nonresidents was required by the clause, the Court
acknowledged that precise equality was neither necessary nor in most
instances possible. But it was required of the challenged state that
it demonstrate a “substantial reason” for the disparity, and the dis-
crimination must bear a “substantial relationship” to that rea-
son.221 A state, under this analysis, may not deny nonresidents a
general tax exemption provided to residents that would reduce their
tax burdens, but it could limit specific expense deductions based on
some relationship between the expenses and their in-state property
or income. Here, the state flatly denied the exemption. Moreover,
the Court rejected various arguments that had been presented, find-
ing that most of those arguments, while they might support tar-
geted denials or partial denials, simply reiterated the state’s conten-
tion that it need not afford any exemptions at all. This section of
the Constitution does not prevent a territorial government, exercis-
ing powers delegated by Congress, from imposing a discriminatory
license tax on nonresident fishermen operating within its wa-
ters.222
    However, what at first glance may appear to be a discrimina-
tion may turn out not to be when the entire system of taxation pre-
vailing in the enacting state is considered. On the basis of overall
fairness, the Court sustained a Connecticut statute that required
nonresident stockholders to pay a state tax measured by the full
market value of their stock while resident stockholders were sub-
ject to local taxation on the market value of that stock reduced by

   218 252 U.S. 60, 78–79 (1920).
   219 Williams v. Fears, 179 U.S. 270, 274 (1900).
   220 522 U.S. 287 (1998).
   221 522 U.S. at 298.
   222 Haavik v. Alaska Packers Ass’n, 263 U.S. 510 (1924).
