                                RATIFICATION


                                 ARTICLE VII
     The Ratification of the Conventions of nine States, shall be
sufficient for the Establishment of this Constitution between the
States so ratifying the Same.
                                    IN GENERAL
           In Owings v. Speed 1 the question at issue was whether the Con-
       stitution operated upon an act of Virginia passed in 1788. The Court
       held it did not, stating in part:
           “The Conventions of nine States having adopted the Constitu-
       tion, Congress, in September or October, 1788, passed a resolution
       in conformity with the opinions expressed by the Convention, and
       appointed the first Wednesday in March of the ensuing year as the
       day, and the then seat of Congress as the place, ‘for commencing
       proceedings under the Constitution.’ ”
           “Both Governments could not be understood to exist at the same
       time. The New Government did not commence until the old Govern-
       ment expired. It is apparent that the government did not com-
       mence on the Constitution being ratified by the ninth State; for these
       ratifications were to be reported to Congress, whose continuing ex-
       istence was recognized by the Convention, and who were requested
       to continue to exercise their powers for the purpose of bringing the
       new Government into operation. In fact, Congress did continue to
       act as a Government until it dissolved on the 1st of November, by
       the successive disappearance of its Members. It existed potentially
       until the 2d of March, the day proceeding that on which the Mem-
       bers of the new Congress were directed to assemble.”
           “The resolution of the Convention might originally have sug-
       gested a doubt, whether the government could be in operation for
       every purpose before the choice of a President; but this doubt has
       been long solved, and were it otherwise, its discussion would be use-
       less, since it is apparent that its operation did not commence be-
       fore the first Wednesday in March 1789 . . . .”




          1   18 U.S. (5 Wheat.) 420, 422–23 (1820).
