      banner, or device designed to bring into public notice any party, orga-
      nization, or movement, held to violate the free speech clause of the
      First Amendment.
              United States v. Grace, 461 U.S. 171 (1983).
              Concurring: White, Brennan, Blackmun, Powell, Rehnquist, O’Connor, Burger, C.J.
              Concurring in part and dissenting in part: Marshall, Stevens

81. Act of May 5, 1950 (64 Stat. 107)
           Article 3(a) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, subjecting ci-
      vilian ex-servicemen to court martial for crime committed while in mili-
      tary service, held to violate Article III, § 2, and the Fifth and Sixth
      Amendments.
              Toth v. Quarles, 350 U.S. 11 (1955).
              Concurring: Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Clark, Harlan, Warren, C.J.
              Dissenting: Reed, Burton, Minton

82. Act of May 5, 1950 (64 Stat. 107)
           Insofar as Article 2(11) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice
      subjects civilian dependents accompanying members of the armed forces
      overseas in time of peace to trial, in capital cases, by court martial, it
      violates Article III, § 2, and the Fifth and Sixth Amendments.
              Reid v. Covert, 354 U.S. 1 (1957).
              Concurring: Black, Douglas, Warren, C.J.
              Concurring specifically: Frankfurter, Harlan
              Dissenting: Clark, Burton
           Insofar as the aforementioned provision is invoked in time of peace
      for the trial of noncapital offenses committed on land bases overseas
      by employees of the armed forces who have not been inducted or who
      have not voluntarily enlisted therein, it violates the Sixth Amendment.
              McElroy v. United States ex rel. Guagliardo, 361 U.S. 281 (1960).
              Concurring: Clark, Black, Douglas, Brennan, Warren, C.J.
              Dissenting: Harlan, Frankfurter
              Concurring in Part and dissenting in Part: Whittaker, Stewart
           Insofar as the aforementioned provision is invoked in time of peace
      for the trial of noncapital offenses committed by civilian dependents
      accompanying members of the armed forces overseas, it violates Ar-
      ticle III, § 2, and the Fifth and Sixth Amendments.
              Kinsella v. United States, 361 U.S. 234 (1960).
              Concurring: Clark, Black, Douglas, Brennan, Warren, C.J.
              Dissenting: Harlan, Frankfurter
              Concurring in part and dissenting in part: Whittaker, Stewart
           Insofar as the aforementioned provision is invoked in time of peace
      for the trial of a capital offense committed by a civilian employee of
      the armed forces overseas, it violates Article III, § 2, and the Fifth and
      Sixth Amendments.
