      ture Medicaid payments to a state whose Medicaid plan does not com-
      ply with new coverage mandated by the Affordable Care Act.. Though
      Congress may use its power under the Clause to secure state compli-
      ance with federal objectives, Spending Clause legislation is much in
      the nature of a contract, and authority to withhold a significant source
      of a state’s budget (over 10% for some states) for failure to provide
      services to signicantly broadened classes of recipients under an inde-
      pendent regulatory regime is improperly coercive. Medicaid coverage
      mandated under the Affordable Care Act cannot fairly be character-
      ized as a “modification” to the program the states signed on to, but
      rather amounts to a fundamental shift in Medicaid’s purpose from car-
      ing for the neediest to being a key element of a comprehensive, univer-
      sal health plan.
              National Federation of Independent Business v. Sebelius, 567 U.S. ___, No. 11–
                393, slip op. (2012).
              Concurring: Roberts, C.J., Breyer, Kagan
              Concurring (by implication): Scalia, Kennedy, Thomas, Alito
              Dissenting in part: Ginsburg, Sotomayor

109. Act of July 30, 1965 (§ 339, 79 Stat. 409)
           Section of Social Security Act qualifying certain illegitimate chil-
      dren for disability insurance benefits by presuming dependence but dis-
      qualifying other illegitimate children, regardless of dependency, if the
      disabled wage earner parent did not contribute to the child’s support
      before the onset of the disability or if the child did not live with the
      parent before the onset of disability, held to deny latter class of chil-
      dren equal protection as guaranteed by the Due Process Clause of the
      Fifth Amendment.
              Jiminez v. Weinberger, 417 U.S. 628 (1974).
              Concurring: Burger, C.J., Douglas, Brennan, Stewart, White, Marshall, Blackmun,
                Powell
              Dissenting: Rehnquist

110. Act of August 6, 1965 (Pub. L. 89–110, § 4(b), 79 Stat. 438, 42 U.S.C.§ 1973b)
            Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which specifies the for-
       mula by which it is determined which states or electoral districts are
       required to submit electoral changes for § 5 preclearance struck down
       as violating federalism principles. Since § 5 preclearance is an “extraor-
       dinary departure from the traditional course of relations between the
       States and the Federal Government”, § 4, which is based on state be-
       haviors from 1972, violates the “fundamental principle of equal sover-
       eignty” among states. The Court went on to find that there was insuf-
       ficient justification for the disparate treatment, as “[v]oter turnout and
       registration rates [in those jurisdictions] now approach parity. Bla-
