farm workers or tenants who abandoned their employment, breached
their contracts, and exercised their legal right to enter into employ-
ment of a similar nature with another person. The clear purpose of
such a statute was declared to be the coercion of payment, by means
of criminal proceedings, of a purely civil liability arising from breach
of contract.25
    Several years later, in Bailey v. Alabama,26 the Court voided
another Alabama statute that made the refusal without just cause
to perform the labor called for in a written contract of employment,
or to refund the money or pay for the property advanced thereun-
der, prima facie evidence of an intent to defraud, and punishable
as a criminal offense, and that was enforced subject to a local rule
of evidence that prevented the accused, for the purpose of rebut-
ting the statutory presumption, from testifying as to his “uncom-
municated motives, purpose, or intention.” Because a state “may not
compel one man to labor for another in payment of a debt by pun-
ishing him as a criminal if he does not perform the service or pay
the debt,” the Court refused to permit it “to accomplish the same
result [indirectly] by creating a statutory presumption which, upon
proof of no other fact, exposes him to conviction.” 27
    In 1914, in United States v. Reynolds,28 a third Alabama enact-
ment was condemned as conducive to peonage through the permis-
sion it accorded to persons, fined upon conviction for a misde-
meanor, to confess judgment with a surety in the amount of the
fine and costs, and then to agree with said surety, in consideration
of the latter’s payment of the confessed judgment, to reimburse him
by working for him upon terms approved by the court, which, the
Court pointed out, might prove more onerous than if the convict
had been sentenced to imprisonment at hard labor in the first place.
Fulfillment of such a contract with the surety was viewed as being
virtually coerced by the constant fear it induced of rearrest, a new
prosecution, and a new fine for breach of contract, which new pen-
alty the convicted person might undertake to liquidate in a similar
manner attended by similar consequences.


    25 Peonage Cases, 123 F. 671 (M.D. Ala. 1903).
    26 219 U.S. 219 (1911). Justice Holmes, joined by Justice Lurton, dissented on
the ground that a state was not forbidden by this Amendment from punishing a
breach of contract as a crime. “Compulsory work for no private master in a jail is
not peonage.” Id. at 247.
    27 219 U.S. at 244.
    28 235 U.S. 133 (1914).
