             PRESIDENTIAL ELECTORS FOR D. C.


                  TWENTY-THIRD AMENDMENT

    SECTIONS 1 AND 2. The District constituting the seat of Gov-
ernment of the United States shall appoint in such manner as
the Congress may direct:
    A number of electors of President and Vice President equal
to the whole number of Senators and Representatives in Con-
gress to which the District would be entitled if it were a State,
but in no event more than the least populous State; they shall
be in addition to those appointed by the States, but they shall
be considered, for the purposes of the election of President and
Vice President, to be electors appointed by a State; and they shall
meet in the District and perform such duties as provided by the
twelfth article of amendment.
    The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by ap-
propriate legislation.
                ENFRANCHISEMENT OF RESIDENTS OF THE
                              DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
            “The purpose of this . . . constitutional amendment is to pro-
        vide the citizens of the District of Columbia with appropriate rights
        of voting in national elections for President and Vice President of
        the United States. It would permit District citizens to elect Presi-
        dential electors who would be in addition to the electors from the
        States and who would participate in electing the President and Vice
        President.”
            “The District of Columbia, with more than 800,000 people, has
        a greater number of persons than the population of each of 13 of
        our States. District citizens have all the obligations of citizenship,
        including the payment of Federal taxes, of local taxes, and service
        in our Armed Forces. They have fought and died in every U.S. war
        since the District was founded. Yet, they cannot now vote in na-
        tional elections because the Constitution has restricted that privi-
        lege to citizens who reside in States. The resultant constitutional
