terest, subject only to the specific prohibitions of the written consti-
tution. The “vested rights” jurists thus found in the “law of the land”
and the “due process” clauses of the state constitutions a restric-
tion upon the substantive content of legislation, which prohibited,
regardless of the matter of procedure, a certain kind or degree of
exertion of legislative power altogether.431 Thus, Chief Justice Taney
was not innovating when, in the Dred Scott case, he pronounced,
without elaboration, that one of the reasons that the Missouri Com-
promise was unconstitutional was that an act of Congress that de-
prived “a citizen of the United States of his liberty or property, merely
because he came himself or brought his property into a particular
territory of the United States, and who had committed no offence
against the laws, could hardly be dignified with the name of due
process of law.” 432 Following the war, with the ratification of the
Fourteenth Amendment’s Due Process Clause, substantive due pro-
cess interpretations were urged on the Supreme Court with regard
to state legislation. First resisted, the arguments came in time to
be accepted, and they imposed upon both federal and state legisla-
tion a firm judicial hand that was not to be removed until the cri-
sis of the 1930s, and that today in non-economic legislation contin-
ues to be reasserted.
     “It may prevent confusion, and relieve from repetition, if we point
out that some of our cases arose under the provisions of the Fifth
and others under those of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Con-
stitution of the United States. Although the language of those Amend-
ments is the same, yet as they were engrafted upon the Constitu-
tion at different times and in widely different circumstances of our
national life, it may be that questions may arise in which different
constructions and applications of their provisions may be proper.” 433
The most obvious difference between the two Due Process Clauses
is that the Fifth Amendment clause as it binds the Federal Govern-
ment coexists with other express provisions in the Bill of Rights
guaranteeing fair procedure and non-arbitrary action, such as jury
trials, grand jury indictments, and nonexcessive bail and fines, as
well as just compensation, whereas the Fourteenth Amendment clause
as it binds the states has been held to contain implicitly not only
the standards of fairness and justness found within the Fifth Amend-
ment’s clause but also to contain many guarantees that are ex-
pressly set out in the Bill of Rights. In that sense, the two clauses

    431 The full account is related in E. CORWIN, LIBERTY AGAINST GOVERNMENT ch. 3

(1948). The pathbreaking decision of the era was Wynhamer v. The People, 13 N.Y.
378 (1856).
    432 Scott v. Sandford, 60 U.S. (19 How.) 393, 450 (1857).
    433 French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 181 U.S. 324, 328 (1901).
