     In Penn Central Transportation Co. v. City of New York,695 the
Court, while cautioning that regulatory takings cases require “es-
sentially ad hoc, factual inquiries,” nonetheless laid out general guid-
ance for determining whether a regulatory taking has occurred. “The
economic impact of the regulation on the claimant and, particu-
larly, the extent to which the regulation has interfered with dis-
tinct investment-backed expectations are . . . relevant consider-
ations. So too, is the character of the governmental action. A ‘taking’
may more readily be found when the interference with property can
be characterized as a physical invasion by government than when
interference arises from some public program adjusting the ben-
efits and burdens of economic life to promote the common good.” 696
     At issue in Penn Central was the City’s landmarks preserva-
tion law, as applied to deny approval to construct a 53-story office
building atop Grand Central Terminal. The Court upheld the land-
marks law against Penn Central’s takings claim through applica-
tion of the principles set forth above. The economic impact on Penn
Central was considered: the Company could still make a “reason-
able return” on its investment by continuing to use the facility as a
rail terminal with office rentals and concessions, and the City spe-
cifically permitted owners of landmark sites to transfer to other sites
the right to develop those sites beyond the otherwise permissible
zoning restrictions, a valuable right that mitigated the burden oth-
erwise to be suffered by the owner. As for the character of the gov-
ernmental regulation, the Court found the landmarks law to be an
economic regulation rather than a governmental appropriation of
property, the preservation of historic sites being a permissible goal
and one that served the public interest.697
    Justice Holmes began his analysis in Mahon with the observa-
tion that “[g]overnment hardly could go on if to some extent values
incident to property could not be diminished without paying for ev-
ery . . . change in the general law,” 698 and Penn Central’s economic
impact standard also leaves ample room for recognition of this prin-
ciple. Thus, the Court can easily hold that a mere permit require-
ment does not amount to a taking,699 nor does a simple recordation

    695 438 U.S. 104 (1978). Justices Rehnquist and Stevens and Chief Justice Burger

dissented. Id. at 138.
    696 438 U.S. at 124 (citations omitted).
    697 438 U.S. at 124–28, 135–38.
    698 260 U.S. at 413.
    699 United States v. Riverside Bayview Homes, 474 U.S. 121 (1985) (require-

ment that permit be obtained for filling privately-owned wetlands is not a taking,
although permit denial resulting in prevention of economically viable use of land
may be).
