are not the same thing, but, insofar as they impose such implicit
requirements of fair trials, fair hearings, and the like, which exist
separately from, though they are informed by, express constitu-
tional guarantees, the interpretation of the two clauses is substan-
tially, if not wholly, the same. Save for areas in which the particu-
larly national character of the Federal Government requires separate
treatment, this book’s discussion of the meaning of due process is
largely reserved for the section on the Fourteenth Amendment. Fi-
nally, some Fourteenth Amendment interpretations have been car-
ried back to broaden interpretations of the Fifth Amendment’s Due
Process Clause, such as, for example, the development of equal pro-
tection standards as an aspect of Fifth Amendment due process.

Procedural Due Process
    In 1855, the Court first attempted to assess its standards for
judging what was due process. At issue was the constitutionality of
summary proceedings under a distress warrant to levy on the lands
of a government debtor. The Court first ascertained that Congress
was not free to make any process “due process.” “To what prin-
ciples, then, are we to resort to ascertain whether this process, en-
acted by congress, is due process? To this the answer must be two-
fold. We must examine the constitution itself, to see whether this
process be in conflict with any of its provisions. If not found to be
so, we must look to those settled usages and modes of proceedings
existing in the common and statute law of England, before the emi-
gration of our ancestors, and which are shown not to have been un-
suited to their civil and political condition by having been acted on
by them after the settlement of this country.” A survey of history
disclosed that the law in England seemed always to have con-
tained a summary method, not unlike the law in question, for re-
covering debts owed the Crown. Therefore, “[t]ested by the com-
mon and statute law of England prior to the emigration of our
ancestors, and by the laws of many of the States at the time of the
adoption of this amendment, the proceedings authorized by the act
of 1820 cannot be denied to be due process of law. . . .” 434
    This formal approach to the meaning of due process could obvi-
ously have limited both Congress and the state legislatures in the
development of procedures unknown to English law. But when Cali-
fornia’s abandonment of indictment by grand jury was challenged,
the Court refused to be limited by the fact that such proceeding
    434 Murray’s Lessee v. Hoboken Land and Improvement Co., 59 U.S. (18 How.)

272, 276–77, 280 (1856). The Court took a similar approach in Fourteenth Amend-
ment due process interpretation in Davidson v. City of New Orleans, 96 U.S. 97 (1878),
and Munn v. Illinois, 94 U.S. 113 (1877).
