due process standard to be applied to tax statutes with retroactive
effect . . . is the same as that generally applicable to retroactive
economic legislation”—retroactive application of legislation must be
shown to be “ ‘justified by a rational legislative purpose.’ ” 549 Apply-
ing that principle, the Court upheld retroactive application of a 1987
amendment limiting application of a federal estate tax deduction
originally enacted in 1986. Congress’s purpose was “neither illegiti-
mate nor arbitrary,” the Court noted, since Congress had acted “to
correct what it reasonably viewed as a mistake in the original 1986
provision that would have created a significant and unanticipated
revenue loss.” Also, “Congress acted promptly and established only
a modest period of retroactivity.” The fact that the taxpayer had
transferred stock in reliance on the original enactment was not disposi-
tive, since “[t]ax legislation is not a promise, and a taxpayer has
no vested right in the Internal Revenue Code.” 550
    Deprivation of Property: Retroactive Legislation.—Federal
regulation of future action, based upon rights previously acquired
by the person regulated, is not prohibited by the Constitution. So
long as the Constitution authorizes the subsequently enacted legis-
lation, the fact that its provisions limit or interfere with previously
acquired rights does not ordinarily condemn it. The imposition upon
coal mine operators, and ultimately coal consumers, of the liability
of compensating former employees, who had terminated work in the
industry before passage of the law, for black lung disabilities con-
tracted in the course of their work, was sustained by the Court as
a rational measure to spread the costs of the employees’ disabili-
ties to those who had profited from the fruits of their labor.551 Leg-
islation readjusting rights and burdens is not unlawful solely be-
cause it upsets otherwise settled expectations, but it must take account
of the realities previously existing, i.e., that the danger may not
have been known or appreciated, or that actions might have been
taken in reliance upon the current state of the law; therefore, legis-
lation imposing liability on the basis of deterrence or of blamewor-

were distinguished in United States v. Carlton, 512 U.S. 26, 30 (1994), as having
been “decided during an era characterized by exacting review of economic legisla-
tion under an approach that ‘has long since been discarded.’ ” The Court noted fur-
ther that Untermyer and Blodgett had been limited to situations involving creation
of a wholly new tax, and that Nichols had involved a retroactivity period of 12 years.
Id.
     549 512 U.S. 26, 30, 31 (1994) (quoting Usery v. Turner Elkhorn Mining Co., 428

U.S. 1, 16–17 (1976)). These principles apply to estate and gift taxes as well as to
income taxes, the Court added. 512 U.S. at 34.
     550 512 U.S. at 33.
     551 Usery v. Turner Elkhorn Mining Co., 428 U.S. 1, 14–20 (1976). But see id. at

38 (Justice Powell concurring) (questioning application of retroactive cost-
spreading).
