volunteered some statements on his own does not deprive him of
the right to refrain from answering any further inquiries until he
has consulted with an attorney and thereafter consents to be ques-
tioned.” 333
     In the opinion of the Miranda Court, police interrogation as con-
ceived and practiced was inherently coercive and the resulting in-
timidation, though informal and legally sanctionless, was contrary
to the protection to be afforded in a system that convicted on the
basis of evidence independently secured. In the Court’s view, this
premise underlaid the law in the federal courts since 1897, and the
application of the Self-Incrimination Clause to the states in 1964
necessitated the application of the principle in state courts as well.
Thereafter, state and local police interrogation practices need be struc-
tured to ensure that suspects not be stripped of the ability to make
a free and rational choice between speaking and not speaking. The
warnings and the provision of counsel were essential, the Court said,
in custodial interrogations.334 “In these cases [presently before the
Court],” said Chief Justice Warren, “we might not find the defen-
dants’ statements to have been involuntary in traditional terms[,
but o]ur concern for adequate safeguards to protect precious Fifth
Amendment rights is, of course, not lessened in the slightest.” 335 It
was thus not the application of the Self-Incrimination Clause to po-
lice interrogation in Miranda that constituted the major change from
precedent but rather the prescriptive series of warnings and guar-
antees which the Court imposed as security for the observance of
the privilege.
    333  384 U.S. at 444–445.
    334  Justices Clark, Harlan, Stewart, and White dissented, finding no historical
support for the application of the clause to police interrogation and rejecting the
policy considerations for the extension put forward by the majority. Miranda v. Ari-
zona, 384 U.S. 436, 499, 504, 526 (1966). Justice White argued that while the Court’s
decision was not compelled or even strongly suggested by the Fifth Amendment, its
history, and the judicial precedents, this did not preclude the Court from making
new law and new public policy grounded in reason and experience, but he con-
tended that the change made in Miranda was ill-conceived because it arose from a
view of interrogation as inherently coercive and because the decision did not ad-
equately protect society’s interest in detecting and punishing criminal behavior. Id.
at 531–45.
     335 384 U.S. at 457. For the continuing recognition of the difference between the

traditional involuntariness test and the Miranda test, see Michigan v. Tucker, 417
U.S. 433, 443–46 (1974); Mincey v. Arizona, 437 U.S. 385, 396–402 (1978). The ac-
knowledgment that the decision considerably expanded upon previous doctrine, even
if the assimilation of self-incrimination values by the confession-exclusion rule be
considered complete, was more clearly made a week after Miranda when, in deny-
ing retroactivity to that case and to Escobedo, the Court asserted that law enforce-
ment officers had relied justifiably upon prior cases, “now no longer binding,” which
treated the failure to warn a suspect of his rights or the failure to grant access to
counsel as one of the factors to be considered. Johnson v. New Jersey, 384 U.S. 719,
731 (1966).
