the officers’ conversation did not amount to a functional equivalent
of questioning and that the evidence was admissible.365
     A later divided Court applied Innis in Arizona v. Mauro 366 to
hold that a suspect who had requested an attorney was not “inter-
rogated” by bringing instead the suspect’s wife, who also was a sus-
pect, to speak with him in police presence. The majority empha-
sized that the suspect’s wife had asked to speak with her husband,
the meeting was therefore not a police-initiated ruse designed to
elicit a response from the suspect, and in any event the meeting
could not be characterized as an attempt by the police to use the
coercive nature of confinement to extract a confession that would
not be given in an unrestricted environment. The dissent argued
that the police had exploited the wife’s request to talk with her hus-
band in a custodial setting to create a situation the police knew, or
should reasonably have known, was reasonable likely to result in
an incriminatory statement.
    In Estelle v. Smith,367 the Court held that a court-ordered jail-
house interview by a psychiatrist seeking to determine the defen-
dant’s competency to stand trial constituted “interrogation” with re-
spect to testimony on issues guilt and punishment; the psychiatrist’s
conclusions about the defendant’s dangerousness were inadmissible
at the capital sentencing phase of the trial because the defendant
had not been given his Miranda warnings prior to the interview.
That the defendant had been questioned by a psychiatrist desig-
nated to conduct a neutral competency examination, rather than
by a police officer, was “immaterial,” the Court concluded, since the
psychiatrist’s testimony at the penalty phase changed his role from
one of neutrality to that of an agent of the prosecution.368 Other
instances of questioning in less formal contexts in which the issues
of custody and interrogation intertwine, e.g., in on-the-street encoun-
ters, await explication by the Court.
    Third, before a suspect in custody is interrogated, he must be
given full warnings, or the equivalent, of his rights. Miranda, of
course, required express warnings to be given to an in-custody sus-
pect of his right to remain silent, that anything he said may be
used as evidence against him, that he has a right to counsel, and
that if he cannot afford counsel he is entitled to an appointed attor-
    365 446 U.S. at 302–04. Justices Marshall, Brennan, and Stevens dissented, id.

at 305, 307. See also Illinois v. Perkins, 496 U.S. 292 (1990) (absence of coercive
environment makes Miranda inapplicable to jail cell conversation between suspect
and police undercover agent).
    366 481 U.S. 520 (1987).
    367 451 U.S. 454 (1981).
    368 451 U.S. at 467.
