not apply.268 Any contention that the voluntary engagement in gam-
bling “waived” the self-incrimination claim, because there is “no con-
stitutional right to gamble,” would nullify the privilege.269 And the
privilege was not governed by a “rigid chronological distinction” so
that it protected only past or present conduct, but also reached fu-
ture self-incrimination the danger of which is not speculative and
insubstantial.270 Significantly, then, Justice Harlan turned to distin-
guishing the statutory requirements here from the “required re-
cords” doctrine of Shapiro. “First, petitioner . . . was not . . . obliged
to keep and preserve records ‘of the same kind as he has customar-
ily kept’; he was required simply to provide information, unrelated
to any records which he may have maintained, about his wagering
activities. This requirement is not significantly different from a de-
mand that he provide oral testimony . . . . Second, whatever ‘pub-
lic aspects’ there were to the records at issue in Shapiro, there are
none to the information demanded from Marchetti. The Govern-
ment’s anxiety to obtain information known to a private individual
does not without more render that information public; if it did, no
room would remain for the application of the constitutional privi-
lege. Nor does it stamp information with a public character that
the government has formalized its demands in the attire of a stat-
ute; if this alone were sufficient, the constitutional privilege could
be entirely abrogated by any Act of Congress. Third, the require-
ments at issue in Shapiro were imposed in ‘an essentially non-
criminal and regulatory area of inquiry’ while those here are di-
rected to a ‘selective group inherently suspect of criminal activities.’
. . . The United States’ principal interest is evidently the collection

      268 “Every element of these requirements would have served to incriminate pe-

titioners; to have required him to present his claim to Treasury officers would have
obliged him ‘to prove guilt to avoid admitting it.’ ” 390 U.S. at 50.
      269 “The question is not whether petitioner holds a ‘right’ to violate state law,

but whether, having done so, he may be compelled to give evidence against himself.
The constitutional privilege was intended to shield the guilty and imprudent as well
as the innocent and foresighted; if such an inference of antecedent choice were alone
enough to abrogate the privilege’s protection, it would be excluded from the situa-
tions in which it has historically been guaranteed, and withheld from those who
most require it.” 390 U.S. at 51. But cf. California v. Byers, 402 U.S. 424, 434 (1971)
(plurality opinion), in which it is suggested that because there is no “right” to leave
the scene of an accident a requirement that a person involved in an accident stop
and identify himself does not violate the Self-Incrimination Clause.
      270 Marchetti v. United States, 390 U.S. 39, 52–54 (1968). “The central standard

for the privilege’s application has been whether the claimant is confronted by sub-
stantial and ‘real,’ and not merely trifling or imaginary, hazards of incrimination
. . . . This principle does not permit the rigid chronological distinctions adopted in
Kahriger and Lewis. We see no reason to suppose that the force of the constitu-
tional prohibition is diminished merely because confession of a guilty purpose pre-
cedes the act which it is subsequently employed to evidence.” Id. at 53–54. Cf. United
States v. Freed, 401 U.S. 601, 605–07 (1971).
