indicated to the Court that imposition of a sentence less than the
maximum was in no sense an “acquittal” of the higher sentence.
Appeal resulted in no further trial or other proceedings to which a
defendant might be subjected, only the imposition of a new sen-
tence. An increase in a sentence would not constitute multiple pun-
ishment, the Court continued, inasmuch as it would be within the
allowable sentence and the defendant could have no legitimate ex-
pectation of finality in the sentence as first given because the statu-
tory scheme alerted him to the possibility of increase. Similarly up-
held as within the allowable range of punishment contemplated by
the legislature was a remedy for invalid multiple punishments un-
der consecutive sentences: a shorter felony conviction was vacated,
and time served was credited to the life sentence imposed for felony-
murder. Even though the first sentence had been commuted and
hence fully satisfied at the time the trial court revised the second
sentence, the resulting punishment was “no greater than the legis-
lature intended,” hence there was no double jeopardy violation.141
    The Court is also quite deferential to legislative classification
of recidivism sentencing enhancement factors as relating only to sen-
tencing and as not constituting elements of an “offense” that must
be proved beyond a reasonable doubt. Ordinarily, therefore, sen-
tence enhancements cannot be construed as additional punishment
for the previous offense, and the Double Jeopardy Clause is not im-
plicated. “Sentencing enhancements do not punish a defendant for
crimes for which he was not convicted, but rather increase his sen-
tence because of the manner in which he committed his crime of
conviction.” 142

“For the Same Offence”
    Sometimes as difficult as determining when a defendant has been
placed in jeopardy is determining whether he was placed in jeop-
ardy for the same offense. As noted previously, the same conduct
may violate the laws of two different sovereigns, and a defendant
    141 Jones v. Thomas, 491 U.S. 376, 381–82 (1989).
    142 United States v. Watts, 519 U.S. 148, 154 (1997) (relying on Witte v. United
States, 515 U.S. 389 (1995), and holding that a sentencing court may consider ear-
lier conduct of which the defendant was acquitted, so long as that conduct is proved
by a preponderance of the evidence). See also Almendarez-Torres v. United States,
523 U.S. 224 (1998) (Congress’s decision to treat recidivism as a sentencing factor
does not violate due process); Monge v. California, 524 U.S. 721 (1998) (retrial is
permissible following appellate holding of failure of proof relating to sentence en-
hancement). Justice Scalia, whose dissent in Almendarez-Torres argued that there
was constitutional doubt over whether recidivism factors that increase a maximum
sentence must be treated as a separate offense for double jeopardy purposes (523
U.S. at 248), answered that question affirmatively in his dissent in Monge. 524 U.S.
740–41.
