trol or because of prosecutorial misconduct or because of error or
abuse of discretion by the judge himself. There must ordinarily be
a balancing of the defendant’s right in having the trial completed
against the public interest in fair trials designed to end in just judg-
ments.79 Thus, when, after jeopardy attached, a mistrial was granted
because of a defective indictment, the Court held that retrial was
not barred; a trial judge “properly exercises his discretion” in cases
in which an impartial verdict cannot be reached or in which a ver-
dict on conviction would have to be reversed on appeal because of
an obvious error. “If an error could make reversal on appeal a cer-
tainty, it would not serve ‘the ends of public justice’ to require that
the government proceed with its proof when, if it succeeded before
the jury, it would automatically be stripped of that success by an
appellate court.” 80 On the other hand, when, after jeopardy at-
tached, a prosecutor successfully moved for a mistrial because a key
witness had inadvertently not been served and could not be found,
the Court held a retrial barred, because the prosecutor knew prior
to the selection and swearing of the jury that the witness was un-
available.81 Although this case appeared to establish the principle
that an error of the prosecutor or of the judge leading to a mistrial
could not constitute a “manifest necessity” for terminating the trial,
Somerville distinguished and limited Downum to situations in which
the error lends itself to prosecutorial manipulation, in being the sort
of instance that the prosecutor could use to abort a trial that was
not proceeding successfully and obtain a new trial that would be to
his advantage.82
    Another kind of case arises when the prosecutor moves for mis-
trial because of prejudicial misconduct by the defense. In Arizona
v. Washington,83 defense counsel in his opening statement made preju-
dicial comments about the prosecutor’s past conduct, and the pros-
ecutor’s motion for a mistrial was granted over defendant’s objec-
tions. The Court ruled that retrial was not barred by double jeopardy.
Granting that in a strict, literal sense, mistrial was not “neces-
sary” because the trial judge could have given limiting instructions
to the jury, the Court held that the highest degree of respect should
be given to the trial judge’s evaluation of the likelihood of the im-
pairment of the impartiality of one or more jurors. As long as sup-

   79 Illinois v. Somerville, 410 U.S. 458, 463 (1973).
   80 410 U.S. at 464.
   81 Downum v. United States, 372 U.S. 734 (1963).
   82 Illinois v. Somerville, 410 U.S. 458, 464–65, 468–69 (1973).
   83 434 U.S. 497 (1978).
