police station seeking to gain access to his client.330 Although Escobedo
appeared in the main to be a Sixth Amendment right-to-counsel case,
the Court at several points emphasized, in terms that clearly impli-
cated self-incrimination considerations, that the suspect had not been
warned of his constitutional rights.331
    Miranda v. Arizona.—In Miranda v. Arizona, a custodial con-
fession case decided two years after Escobedo, the Court deemphasized
the Sixth Amendment holding of Escobedo and made the Fifth Amend-
ment self-incrimination rule preeminent.332 The core of the Court’s
prescriptive holding in Miranda is as follows: “[T]he prosecution may
not use statements, whether exculpatory or inculpatory, stemming
from custodial interrogation of the defendant unless it demon-
strates the use of procedural safeguards effective to secure the privi-
lege against self-incrimination. By custodial interrogation, we mean
questioning initiated by law enforcement officers after a person has
been taken into custody or otherwise deprived of his freedom of ac-
tion in any significant way. As for the procedural safeguards to be
employed, unless other fully effective means are devised to inform
accused persons of their right of silence and to assure a continuous
opportunity to exercise it, the following measures are required. Prior
to any questioning, the person must be warned that he has a right
to remain silent, that any statement he does make may be used as
evidence against him, and that he has a right to the presence of an
attorney, either retained or appointed. The defendant may waive
effectuation of these rights, provided the waiver is made volun-
tarily, knowingly and intelligently. If, however, he indicates in any
manner and at any stage of the process that he wishes to consult
with an attorney before speaking there can be no questioning. Like-
wise, if the individual is alone and indicates in any manner that
he does not wish to be interrogated, the police may not question
him. The mere fact that he may have answered some questions or

    330 Previously, it had been held that a denial of a request to consult counsel

was but one of the factors to be considered in assessing voluntariness. Crooker v.
California, 357 U.S. 433 (1958); Cicenia v. Lagay, 357 U.S. 504 (1958). Chief Justice
Warren and Justices Black, Douglas, and Brennan were prepared in these cases to
impose a requirement of right to counsel per se. Post-indictment interrogation with-
out the presence of counsel seemed doomed after Spano v. New York, 360 U.S. 315
(1959), and this was confirmed in Massiah v. United States, 377 U.S. 201 (1964).
See discussion of “Custodial Interrogation” under Sixth Amendment, infra.
    331 Escobedo v. Illinois, 378 U.S. 478, 485, 491 (1964) (both pages containing

assertions of the suspect’s “absolute right to remain silent” in the context of police
warnings prior to interrogation).
    332 384 U.S. 436, 444–45 (1966). In Johnson v. New Jersey, 384 U.S. 719 (1966),

the Court held that neither Escobedo nor Miranda was to be applied retroactively.
In cases where trials commenced after the decisions were announced, the due pro-
cess “totality of circumstances” test was to be the key. Cf. Davis v. North Carolina,
384 U.S. 737 (1966).
