hang. . . . Accordingly, we hold that the consideration of hung counts
has no place in the issue-preclusion analysis.” 175

                            SELF-INCRIMINATION

Development and Scope
     The source of the Self-Incrimination Clause was the maxim “nemo
tenetur seipsum accusare,” that “no man is bound to accuse him-
self.” The maxim is but one aspect of two different systems of law
enforcement which competed in England for acceptance; the accusato-
rial and the inquisitorial. In the accusatorial system, which pre-
dated the reign of Henry II and was expanded and extended by him,
first the community and then the state by grand and petit juries
proceeded against alleged wrongdoers through the examination of
others, and in the early years through examination of the defen-
dant as well. The inquisitorial system, which developed in the eccle-
siastical courts, compelled the alleged wrongdoer to affirm his cul-
pability through the use of the oath ex officio. Under this system, a
presiding official had the power to compel a witness to take an oath
to tell the truth to the full extent of his knowledge as to all mat-
ters about which he would be questioned; before administration of
the oath the person was not advised of the nature of the charges
against him, or whether he was accused of crime, and was also not
informed of the nature of the questions to be asked.176
    The use of this oath in Star Chamber proceedings, especially to
root out political heresies, combined with opposition to the ecclesi-
astical use of the oath ex officio, led over time to general accep-
tance of the principle that a person could not be required to accuse
himself under oath before an official tribunal looking into criminal
activity, or before a magistrate investigating an accusation against
him with or without oath, or under oath in a court of equity or a
court of common law.177 The precedents in the colonies are few in
number, but following the Revolution six states had embodied the

    175  557 U.S. ___, No. 08–67, slip op. at 10–11.
    176  Maguire, Attack of the Common Lawyers on the Oath Ex Officio as Adminis-
tered in the Ecclesiastical Courts in England, in ESSAYS IN HISTORY AND POLITICAL THEORY
IN HONOR OF CHARLES HOWARD MCILWAIN 199 (C. Wittke ed., 1936).
     177 The traditional historical account is 8 J. WIGMORE, A TREATISE ON THE ANGLO-

AMERICAN SYSTEM OF EVIDENCE § 2250 (J. McNaughton rev. 1961), but more recent his-
torical studies have indicated that Dean Wigmore was too grudging of the privilege.
LEONARD LEVY, ORIGINS OF THE FIFTH AMENDMENT: THE RIGHT AGAINST SELF-INCRIMINATION
(1968); Morgan, The Privilege Against Self-Incrimination, 34 MINN. L. REV. 1 (1949).
