                          RIGHTS OF PERSONS


                           FIFTH AMENDMENT
    No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or other-
wise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of
a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces,
or in the Militia, when in actual service in time of War or pub-
lic danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offence
to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be com-
pelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor
be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of
law; nor shall private property be taken for public use, without
just compensation.
                          INDICTMENT BY GRAND JURY
             The history of the grand jury is rooted in the common and civil
        law, extending back to Athens, pre-Norman England, and the As-
        size of Clarendon promulgated by Henry II.1 The right seems to have
        been first mentioned in the colonies in the Charter of Liberties and
        Privileges of 1683, which was passed by the first assembly permit-
        ted to be elected in the colony of New York.2 Included from the first
        in Madison’s introduced draft of the Bill of Rights, the provision
        elicited no recorded debate and no opposition. “The grand jury is
        an English institution, brought to this country by the early colo-
        nists and incorporated in the Constitution by the Founders. There
        is every reason to believe that our constitutional grand jury was
        intended to operate substantially like its English progenitor. The
        basic purpose of the English grand jury was to provide a fair method
        for instituting criminal proceedings against persons believed to have
        committed crimes. Grand jurors were selected from the body of the
        people and their work was not hampered by rigid procedural or evi-
        dential rules. In fact, grand jurors could act on their own knowl-
        edge and were free to make their presentments or indictments on
            1Morse, A Survey of the Grand Jury System, 10 ORE. L. REV. 101 (1931).
            21 BERNARD SCHWARTZ, THE BILL OF RIGHTS: A DOCUMENTARY HISTORY 162, 166 (1971).
        The provision read: “That in all Cases Capital or Criminal there shall be a grand
        Inquest who shall first present the offence. . . .”
