port for a mistrial order can be found in the trial record, no specific
statement of “manifest necessity” need be made by the trial judge.84
    Emphasis upon the trial judge’s discretion has an impact upon
the cases in which it is the judge’s error, in granting sua sponte a
mistrial or granting the prosecutor’s motion. The cases are in doc-
trinal disarray. Thus, in Gori v. United States,85 the Court permit-
ted retrial of the defendant when the trial judge had, on his own
motion and with no indication of the wishes of defense counsel, de-
clared a mistrial because he thought the prosecutor’s line of ques-
tioning was intended to expose the defendant’s criminal record, which
would have constituted prejudicial error. Although the Court thought
that the judge’s action was an abuse of discretion, it approved re-
trial on the grounds that the judge’s decision had been taken for
defendant’s benefit. This rationale was disapproved in the next case,
in which the trial judge discharged the jury erroneously and in abuse
of his discretion, because he disbelieved the prosecutor’s assurance
that certain witnesses had been properly apprised of their constitu-
tional rights.86 Refusing to permit retrial, the Court observed that
the “doctrine of manifest necessity stands as a command to trial
judges not to foreclose the defendant’s option [to go to the first jury
and perhaps obtain an acquittal] until a scrupulous exercise of ju-
dicial discretion leads to the conclusion that the ends of public jus-
tice would not be served by a continuation of the proceedings.” 87
The later cases appear to accept Jorn as an example of a case where
the trial judge “acts irrationally or irresponsibly.” But if the trial
judge acts deliberately, giving prosecution and defense the opportu-
nity to explain their positions, and according respect to defendant’s
interest in concluding the matter before the one jury, then he is

     84 “Manifest necessity” characterizes the burden the prosecutor must shoulder

in justifying retrial. 434 U.S. at 505–06. But “necessity” cannot be interpreted liter-
ally; it means rather a “high degree” of necessity, and some instances, such as hung
juries, easily meet that standard. Id. at 506–07. In a situation like that presented
in this case, great deference must be paid to the trial judge’s decision because he
was in the best position to determine the extent of the possible bias, having ob-
served the jury’s response, and to respond by the course he deems best suited to
deal with it. Id. at 510–14. Here, “the trial judge acted responsibly and deliberately,
and accorded careful consideration to respondent’s interest in having the trial con-
cluded in a single proceeding. . . . [H]e exercised ‘sound discretion.’ . . . ” Id. at 516.
     85 367 U.S. 364 (1961). See also United States v. Tateo, 377 U.S. 463 (1964)

(reprosecution permitted after the setting aside of a guilty plea found to be involun-
tary because of coercion by the trial judge).
     86 United States v. Jorn, 400 U.S. 470, 483 (1971).
     87 400 U.S. at 485. The opinion of the Court was by a plurality of four, but two

other Justices joined it after first arguing that jurisdiction was lacking to hear the
government’s appeal.
