for the offense under inquiry 8 and the commission of perjury by a
witness before the grand jury is punishable, irrespective of the na-
ture of the warning given him when he appears and regardless of
the fact that he may already be a putative defendant when he is
called.9
    Of greater significance were two cases in which the Court held
the Fourth Amendment to be inapplicable to grand jury subpoenas
requiring named parties to give voice exemplars and handwriting
samples to the grand jury for identification purposes.10 According
to the Court, the issue turned on a dual inquiry—“whether either
the initial compulsion of the person to appear before the grand jury,
or the subsequent directive to make a voice recording is an unrea-
sonable ‘seizure’ within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment.” 11
First, a subpoena to appear was held not to be a seizure, because
it entailed significantly less social and personal affront than did an
arrest or an investigative stop, and because every citizen has an
obligation, which may be onerous at times, to appear and give what-
ever aid he may to a grand jury.12 Second, the directive to make a
voice recording or to produce handwriting samples did not bring the
Fourth Amendment into play because no one has any expectation
of privacy in the characteristics of either his voice or his handwrit-
ing.13 Because the Fourth Amendment was inapplicable, there was
no necessity for the government to make a preliminary showing of
the reasonableness of the grand jury requests.

     8 United States v. Washington, 431 U.S. 181 (1977). Because defendant when

he appeared before the grand jury was warned of his rights to decline to answer
questions on the basis of self-incrimination, the decision was framed in terms of those
warnings, but the Court twice noted that it had not decided, and was not deciding,
“whether any Fifth Amendment warnings whatever are constitutionally required for
grand jury witnesses . . . .” Id. at 186.
     9 United States v. Mandujano, 425 U.S. 564 (1976); United States v. Wong, 431

U.S. 174 (1977). Mandujano had been told of his right to assert the privilege against
self-incrimination, of the consequences of perjury, and of his right to counsel, but
not to have counsel with him in the jury room. Chief Justice Burger and Justices
White, Powell, and Rehnquist took the position that no Miranda warning was re-
quired because there was no police custodial interrogation and that in any event
commission of perjury was not excusable on the basis of lack of any warning. Jus-
tices Brennan, Marshall, Stewart, and Blackmun agreed that whatever rights a grand
jury witness had, perjury was punishable and not to be excused. Id. at 584, 609.
Wong was assumed on appeal not to have understood the warnings given her and
the opinion proceeds on the premise that absence of warnings altogether does not
preclude a perjury prosecution.
     10 United States v. Dionisio, 410 U.S. 1 (1973); United States v. Mara, 410 U.S.

19 (1973).
     11 Dionisio, 410 U.S. at 9.
     12 410 U.S. at 9–13.
     13 410 U.S. at 13–15. The privacy rationale proceeds from Katz v. United States,

389 U.S. 347 (1967).
