such information as they deemed satisfactory. Despite its broad power
to institute criminal proceedings the grand jury grew in popular fa-
vor with the years. It acquired an independence in England free
from control by the Crown or judges. Its adoption in our Constitu-
tion as the sole method for preferring charges in serious criminal
cases shows the high place it held as an instrument of justice. And
in this country as in England of old the grand jury has convened
as a body of laymen, free from technical rules, acting in secret, pledged
to indict no one because of prejudice and to free no one because of
special favor.” 3
    The prescribed constitutional function of grand juries in fed-
eral courts 4 is to return criminal indictments, but the juries serve
a considerably broader series of purposes as well. Principal among
these is the investigative function, which is served through the fact
that grand juries may summon witnesses by process and compel
testimony and the production of evidence generally. Operating in
secret, under the direction but not control of a prosecutor, not bound
by many evidentiary and constitutional restrictions, such juries may
examine witnesses in the absence of their counsel and without in-
forming them of the object of the investigation or the place of the
witnesses in it.5 The exclusionary rule is inapplicable in grand jury

     3 Costello v. United States, 350 U.S. 359, 362 (1956). “The grand jury is an inte-

gral part of our constitutional heritage which was brought to this country with the
common law. The Framers, most of them trained in the English law and traditions,
accepted the grand jury as a basic guarantee of individual liberty; notwithstanding
periodic criticism, much of which is superficial, overlooking relevant history, the grand
jury continues to function as a barrier to reckless or unfounded charges . . . . Its
historic office has been to provide a shield against arbitrary or oppressive action, by
insuring that serious criminal accusations will be brought only upon the considered
judgment of a representative body of citizens acting under oath and under judicial
instruction and guidance.” United States v. Mandujano, 425 U.S. 564, 571 (1976)
(plurality opinion). See id. at 589–91 (Justice Brennan concurring).
     4 This provision applies only in federal courts and is not applicable to the states,

either as an element of due process or as a direct command of the Fourteenth Amend-
ment. Hurtado v. California, 110 U.S. 516 (1884); Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U.S. 319,
323 (1937); Alexander v. Louisiana, 405 U.S. 625, 633 (1972).
     5 Witnesses are not entitled to have counsel present in the room. FED. R. CIV. P.

6(d). The validity of this restriction was asserted in dictum in In re Groban, 352
U.S. 330, 333 (1957), and inferentially accepted by the dissent in that case. Id. at
346–47 (Justice Black, distinguishing grand juries from the investigative entity be-
fore the Court). The decision in Coleman v. Alabama, 399 U.S. 1 (1970), deeming
the preliminary hearing a “critical stage of the prosecution” at which counsel must
be provided, called this rule in question, inasmuch as the preliminary hearing and
the grand jury both determine whether there is probable cause with regard to a
suspect. See id. at 25 (Chief Justice Burger dissenting). In United States v. Mandujano,
425 U.S. 564, 581 (1976) (plurality opinion), Chief Justice Burger wrote: “Respon-
dent was also informed that if he desired he could have the assistance of counsel,
but that counsel could not be inside the grand jury room. That statement was plainly
a correct recital of the law. No criminal proceedings had been instituted against re-
spondent, hence the Sixth Amendment right to counsel had not come into play.” By
