strength of the governmental interest in the system requiring the
choice, the Court soon developed another test stressing the voluntari-
ness of the choice. A guilty plea entered by a defendant who cor-
rectly understands the consequences of the plea is voluntary un-
less coerced or obtained under false pretenses; moreover, there is
no impermissible coercion where the defendant has the effective as-
sistance of counsel.221 The Court in an opinion by Justice Harlan
then formulated still another test in holding that a defendant in a
capital case in which the jury in one process decides both guilt and
sentence could be put to a choice between remaining silent on guilt
or admitting guilt and being able to put on evidence designed to
mitigate the possible sentence. The pressure to take the stand in
response to the sentencing issue, said the Court, was not so great
as to impair the policies underlying the Self-Incrimination Clause,
policies described in this instance as proscription of coercion and of
cruelty in putting the defendant to an undeniably “hard” choice.222
Similarly, the Court held that requiring a defendant to give notice
to the prosecution before trial of his intention to rely on an alibi
defense and to give the names and addresses of witnesses who will
support it does not violate the clause.223 Nor does it violate a defen-
dant’s self-incrimination privilege to create a presumption upon the
establishment of certain basic facts from which the jury may infer
the defendant’s guilt unless he rebuts the presumption.224

     221 Parker v. North Carolina, 397 U.S. 790 (1970); Brady v. United States, 397

U.S. 742 (1970); McMann v. Richardson, 397 U.S. 759 (1970). Parker and Brady en-
tered guilty pleas to avoid the death penalty when it became clear that the prosecu-
tion had solid evidence of their guilt; Richardson pled guilty because of his fear that
an allegedly coerced confession would be introduced into evidence.
     222 McGautha v. California, 402 U.S. 183, 210–20 (1971). When the Court subse-

quently required bifurcated trials in capital cases, it was on the basis of the Eighth
Amendment, and represented no withdrawal from the position described here. Cf.
Corbitt v. New Jersey, 439 U.S. 212 (1978); Bordenkircher v. Hayes, 434 U.S. 357
(1978).
     223 Williams v. Florida, 399 U.S. 78, 80–86 (1970). The compulsion of choice, Jus-

tice White argued for the Court, proceeded from the strength of the state’s case and
not from the disclosure requirement. That is, the rule did not affect whether or not
the defendant chose to make an alibi defense and to call witnesses, but merely re-
quired him to accelerate the timing. It appears, however, that in Brooks v. Tennes-
see, 406 U.S. 605 (1972), the Court used the “needless encouragement” test in strik-
ing down a state rule requiring the defendant to testify before any other defense
witness or to forfeit the right to testify at all. In the Court’s view, this impermissi-
bly burdened the defendant’s choice whether to testify or not. Another prosecution
discovery effort was approved in United States v. Nobles, 422 U.S. 233 (1975), in
which a defense investigator’s notes of interviews with prosecution witnesses were
ordered disclosed to the prosecutor for use in cross-examination of the investigator.
The Court discerned no compulsion upon defendant to incriminate himself.
     224 “The same situation might present itself if there were no statutory presump-

tion and a prima facie case of concealment with knowledge of unlawful importation
were made by the evidence. The necessity of an explanation by the accused would
be quite as compelling in that case as in this; but the constraint upon him to give
