the record-keeper himself.” 257 But the only limit that the Court sug-
gested in Shapiro was that there must be “a sufficient relation be-
tween the activity sought to be regulated and the public concern so
that the Government can constitutionally regulate or forbid the ba-
sic activity concerned, and can constitutionally require the keeping
of particular records, subject to inspection by the Administra-
tor.” 258 That there are limits established by the Self-Incrimination
Clause itself rather than by a subject matter jurisdiction test is evi-
dent in the Court’s consideration of reporting and disclosure require-
ments implicating but not directly involving the required-records doc-
trine.
     Reporting and Disclosure.—The line of cases begins with United
States v. Sullivan,259 in which a unanimous Court held that the Fifth
Amendment did not privilege a bootlegger in not filing an income
tax return because the filing would have disclosed the illegality in
which he was engaged. “It would be an extreme if not an extrava-
gant application of the Fifth Amendment to say that it authorized
a man to refuse to state the amount of his income because it had
been made in crime,” Justice Holmes stated for the Court.260 How-
ever, “[i]f the form of return provided called for answers that the
defendant was privileged from making he could have raised the ob-
jection in the return . . . .” 261 Using its taxing power to reach gam-
bling activities over which it might otherwise not have had jurisdic-
tion,262 Congress enacted a complicated statute imposing an annual
occupational tax on gamblers and an excise tax on all their wages,
and coupled the tax with an annual registration requirement un-
der which each gambler must file with the IRS a declaration of his
business with identification of his place of business and his employ-
ees and agents, filings which were made available to state and lo-
cal law enforcement agencies. These requirements were upheld by
    257  335 U.S. at 32.
    258  335 U.S. at 32.
     259 274 U.S. 259, 263, 264 (1927). Sullivan was reaffirmed in Garner v. United

States, 424 U.S. 648 (1976), holding that a taxpayer’s privilege against self-
incrimination was not violated when he failed to claim his privilege on his tax re-
turns, and instead gave incriminating information leading to conviction. One must
assert one’s privilege to alert the government to the possibility that it is seeking to
obtain incriminating material. It is not coercion forbidden by the clause that upon a
claim of the privilege the government could seek an indictment for failure to file,
since a valid claim of privilege cannot be the basis of a conviction. The taxpayer
was not entitled to a judicial ruling on the validity of his claim and an opportunity
to reconsider if the ruling went against him, regardless of whether a good-faith er-
roneous assertion of the privilege could subject him to prosecution, a question not
resolved.
     260 274 U.S. at 263–64.
     261 274 U.S. at 263.
     262 The expansion of the commerce power would now obviate reliance on the

taxing power.
