courts. And, in Johnson v. Eisentrager,477 the Court overruled a lower
court decision that, in reliance upon the dissenting opinion in
Yamashita, had held that the Due Process Clause required that the
legality of the conviction of enemy alien belligerents by military tri-
bunals should be tested by the writ of habeas corpus.
    Failure of the Executive Branch to provide for any type of pro-
ceeding for prisoners alleged to be “enemy combatants,” whether in
a military tribunal or a federal court, was at issue in Hamdi v.
Rumsfeld.478 During a military action in Afghanistan,479 a United
States citizen, Yaser Hamdi, was taken prisoner. The Executive Branch
argued that it had authority to hold such an “enemy combatant”
while providing him with limited recourse to the federal courts. The
Court agreed that the President was authorized to detain a United
States citizen seized in Afghanistan.480 However, the Court ruled
that the government may not detain the petitioner indefinitely for
purposes of interrogation, but must give him the opportunity to of-
fer evidence that he is not an enemy combatant. At a minimum,
the petitioner must be given notice of the asserted factual basis for
holding him, must be given a fair chance to rebut that evidence
before a neutral decision-maker, and must be allowed to consult an
attorney.481
    Without dissent, in Hiatt v. Brown,482 the Court reversed the
judgment of a lower court that had discharged a prisoner serving a
sentence imposed by a court-martial because of errors that had de-
prived the prisoner of due process of law. The Court held that the
    477  339 U.S. 763 (1950). Justices Douglas, Black, and Burton dissented.
    478  542 U.S. 507 (2004).
     479 In response to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on New York City’s

World Trade Center and the Pentagon in Washington, D.C., Congress passed the
“Authorization for Use of Military Force,” Pub. L. 107–40, which served as the basis
for military action against the Taliban government of Afghanistan and the al Qaeda
forces that were harbored there.
     480 There was no opinion of the Court in Hamdi. Rather, a plurality opinion,

authored by Justice O’Connor (joined by Chief Justice Rehnquist, Justice Kennedy
and Justice Breyer) relied on the “Authorization for Use of Military Force” passed
by Congress to support the detention. Justice Thomas also found that the Executive
Branch had the power to detain the petitioner, but he based his conclusion on Ar-
ticle II of the Constitution.
     481 542 U.S. at 533, 539 (2004). Although only a plurality of the Court voted for

both continued detention of the petitioner and for providing these due process rights,
four other Justices would have extended due process at least this far. Justice Souter,
joined by Justice Ginsberg, while rejecting the argument that Congress had autho-
rized such detention, agreed with the plurality as to the requirement of providing
minimal due process. Id. at 553 (concurring in part, dissenting in part, and concur-
ring in judgement). Justice Scalia, joined by Justice Stevens, denied that such con-
gressional authorization was possible without a suspension of the writ of habeas cor-
pus, and thus would have required a criminal prosecution of the petitioner. Id. at
554 (dissenting).
     482 339 U.S. 103 (1950).
