the prosecution had failed to rebut defendant’s proof of insanity. In
directing that the defendant could not be retried, the Court ob-
served that if the trial court “had so held in the first instance, as
the reviewing court said it should have done, a judgment of acquit-
tal would have been entered and, of course, petitioner could not be
retried for the same offense. . . . [I]t should make no difference that
the reviewing court, rather than the trial court, determined the evi-
dence to be insufficient.” 132 The policy underlying the clause of not
allowing the prosecution to make repeated efforts to convict fore-
closes giving the prosecution another opportunity to supply evi-
dence which it failed to muster in the first proceeding. On the other
hand, if a reviewing court reverses a jury conviction because of its
disagreement on the weight rather than the sufficiency of the evi-
dence, retrial is permitted; the appellate court’s decision does not
mean that acquittal was the only proper course, hence the defer-
ence required for acquittals is not merited.133 Also, the Burks rule
does not bar reprosecution following a reversal based on erroneous
admission of evidence, even if the remaining properly admitted evi-
dence would be insufficient to convict.134
    Sentence Increases.—The Double Jeopardy Clause protects
against imposition of multiple punishment for the same offense.135
The application of the principle leads, however, to a number of com-
plexities. In a simple case, it was held that where a court inadver-
tently imposed both a fine and imprisonment for a crime for which
the law authorized one or the other but not both, it could not, after
the fine had been paid and the defendant had entered his short term
of confinement, recall the defendant and change its judgment by
    132 Id. at 10–11. See also Greene v. Massey, 437 U.S. 19 (1978) (remanding for

determination whether appellate majority had reversed for insufficient evidence or
whether some of the majority had based decision on trial error); Hudson v. Louisi-
ana, 450 U.S. 40 (1981) (Burks applies where appellate court finds some but insuffi-
cient evidence adduced, not only where it finds no evidence). Burks was distin-
guished in Justices of Boston Mun. Court v. Lydon, 466 U.S. 294 (1984), which held
that a defendant who had elected to undergo a bench trial with no appellate review
but with the right of trial de novo before a jury (and with appellate review avail-
able) could not bar trial de novo and reverse his bench trial conviction by asserting
that the conviction had been based on insufficient evidence. The two-tiered system
in effect gave the defendant two chances at acquittal; under those circumstances
jeopardy was not terminated by completion of the first entirely optional stage.
    133 Tibbs v. Florida, 457 U.S. 31 (1982). The decision was 5-to-4, the dissent ar-

guing that weight and insufficiency determinations should be given identical Double
Jeopardy Clause treatment. Id. at 47 (Justices White, Brennan, Marshall, and
Blackmun).
    134 Lockhart v. Nelson, 488 U.S. 33 (1988) (state may reprosecute under ha-

bitual offender statute even though evidence of a prior conviction was improperly
admitted; at retrial, state may attempt to establish other prior convictions as to which
no proof was offered at prior trial).
    135 Ex parte Lange, 85 U.S. (18 Wall.) 163, 173 (1874); North Carolina v. Pearce,

395 U.S. 711, 717 (1969).
