the case that each statute requires proof of a fact that the other
does not, and no indication existed in the statutes and the legisla-
tive history that Congress wanted the separate offenses pun-
ished.154 In this as in other areas, a guilty plea ordinarily pre-
cludes collateral attack.155
    Successive Prosecutions for “the Same Offense”.—
Successive prosecutions raise fundamental double jeopardy con-
cerns extending beyond those raised by enhanced and multiple pun-
ishments. It is more burdensome for a defendant to face charges in
separate proceedings, and if those proceedings are strung out over
a lengthy period the defendant is forced to live in a continuing state
of uncertainty. At the same time, multiple prosecutions allow the
state to hone its trial strategies through successive attempts at con-
viction.156 In Brown v. Ohio,157 the Court, apparently for the first
time, applied the same evidence test to bar successive prosecutions
in state court for different statutory offenses involving the same con-
duct. The defendant had been convicted of “joyriding,” defined as
operating a motor vehicle without the owner’s consent, and was then
prosecuted and convicted of stealing the same automobile. Because
the state courts had conceded that joyriding was a lesser included
offense of auto theft, the Court observed that each offense required
the same proof and for double jeopardy purposes met the Blockburger
test. The second conviction was overturned.158 Application of the same
principles resulted in a holding that a prior conviction of failing to
reduce speed to avoid an accident did not preclude a second trial
for involuntary manslaughter, because failing to reduce speed was
not a necessary element of the statutory offense of manslaughter,

     154 The Court reasoned that a conviction for killing in the course of rape could

not be had without providing all of the elements of the offense of rape. See also
Jeffers v. United States, 432 U.S. 137 (1977) (no indication in legislative history Con-
gress intended defendant to be prosecuted both for conspiring to distribute drugs
and for distributing drugs in concert with five or more persons); Simpson v. United
States, 435 U.S. 6 (1978) (defendant improperly prosecuted both for committing bank
robbery with a firearm and for using a firearm to commit a felony); Bell v. United
States, 349 U.S. 81 (1955) (simultaneous transportation of two women across state
lines for immoral purposes one violation of Mann Act rather than two).
     155 United States v. Broce, 488 U.S. 563 (1989) (defendant who pled guilty to

two separate conspiracy counts is barred from collateral attack alleging that in fact
there was only one conspiracy and that double jeopardy applied).
     156 See Grady v. Corbin, 495 U.S. 508, 518–19 (1990).
     157 432 U.S. 161 (1977). Cf. In re Nielsen, 131 U.S. 176 (1889) (prosecution of

Mormon for adultery held impermissible following his conviction for cohabiting with
more than one woman, even though second prosecution required proof of an addi-
tional fact—that he was married to another woman).
     158 See also Harris v. Oklahoma, 433 U.S. 682 (1977) (defendant who had been

convicted of felony murder for participating in a store robbery with another person
who shot a store clerk could not be prosecuted for robbing the store, since store rob-
bery was a lesser-included crime in the offense of felony murder).
