ests protected by the Amendment—protection of privacy and main-
tenance of an accusatorial system—with the noncriminal purpose,
the necessity for self-reporting as a means of securing information,
and the nature of the disclosures required, Justice Harlan voted to
sustain the statute.275 Byers was applied in Baltimore Dep’t of So-
cial Services v. Bouknight 276 to uphold a juvenile court’s order that
the mother of a child under the court’s supervision produce the child.
Although in this case the mother was suspected of having abused
or murdered her child, the order was justified out of concern for
the child’s safety—a “compelling reason[ ] unrelated to criminal law
enforcement.” 277 Moreover, because the mother had custody of her
previously abused child only as a result of the juvenile court’s or-
der, the Court analogized to the required records cases to conclude
that the mother had submitted to the requirements of the civil regu-
latory regime as the child’s “custodian.”

Confessions: Police Interrogation, Due Process, and
   Self-Incrimination
    The Common Law Rule.—By the latter part of the eigh-
teenth century English and early American courts had developed a
rule that coerced confessions were potentially excludable from ad-
mission at trial because they were testimonially untrustworthy.278
The Supreme Court at times continued to ground exclusion of invol-
untary confessions on this common law foundation of unreliability
without any mention of the constitutional bar against self-
incrimination. Consider this dictum from an 1884 opinion: “[V]olun-
tary confession of guilt is among the most effectual proofs in the
law, . . . [b]ut the presumption upon which weight is given to such
evidence, namely, that one who is innocent will not imperil his safety
or prejudice his interests by an untrue statement, ceases when the
confession appears to have been made either in consequence of in-
ducements of a temporal nature, held out by one in authority, touch-
ing the charge preferred, or because of a threat or promise by or in
the presence of such person, which, operating upon the fears or hopes
of the accused, in reference to the charge, deprives him of that free-
     275 402 U.S. at 448–58. The four dissenters argued that it was unquestionable

that Byers would have faced real risks of self-incrimination by compliance with the
statute and that this risk was sufficient to invoke the privilege. Id. at 459, 464 (Jus-
tices Black, Douglas, Brennan, and Marshall).
     276 493 U.S. 549 (1990).
     277 493 U.S. at 561. By the same token, the Court concluded that the targeted

group—persons who care for children pursuant to a juvenile court’s custody or-
der—is not a group “inherently suspect of criminal activities” in the Albertson-
Marchetti sense.
     278 3 J. WIGMORE, A TREATISE ON THE ANGLO-AMERICAN SYSTEM OF EVIDENCE § 823 (3d

ed. 1940); Developments in the Law—Confessions, 79 HARV. L. REV. 935, 954–59 (1966).
