thiness might not have passed muster. The Court has applied Turner
Elkhorn in upholding retroactive application of pension plan termi-
nation provisions to cover the period of congressional consider-
ation, declaring that the test for retroactive application of legisla-
tion adjusting economic burdens is merely whether “the retroactive
application . . . is itself justified by a rational legislative pur-
pose.” 552
    Rent regulations were sustained as applied to prevent execu-
tion of a judgment of eviction rendered by a state court before the
enabling legislation was passed.553 For the reason that “those who
do business in the regulated field cannot object if the legislative scheme
is buttressed by subsequent amendments to achieve the legislative
end,” no vested right to use housing, built with the aid of FHA mort-
gage insurance for transient purposes, was acquired by one obtain-
ing insurance under an earlier section of the National Housing Act,
which, though silent in this regard, was contemporaneously con-
strued as barring rental to transients, and was later modified by
an amendment that expressly excluded such use.554 An order by an
Area Rent Director reducing an unapproved rental and requiring
the landlord to refund the excess previously collected, was held, with
one dissenting vote, not to be the type of retroactivity which is con-
demned by law.555 The application of a statute providing for to-
bacco marketing quotas, to a crop planted prior to its enactment,
was held not to deprive the producers of property without due pro-

     552 Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. v. R.A. Gray & Co., 467 U.S. 717, 730 (1984).

Accord, United States v. Sperry Corp., 493 U.S. 52, 65 (1989) (upholding imposition
of user fee on claimants paid by Iran-United States Claims Tribunal prior to enact-
ment of fee statute). Concrete Pipe & Products v. Construction Laborers Pension
Trust, 508 U.S. 602, 636–41 (1993) (imposition of multiemployer pension plan with-
drawal liability on an employer is not irrational, even though none of its employees
had earned vested benefits by the time of withdrawal). In Eastern Enterprises v.
Apfel, 524 U.S. 498 (1998), the challenge was to a statutory requirement that com-
panies formerly engaged in mining pay miner retiree health benefits, as applied to
a company that had placed its mining operations in a wholly owned subsidiary three
decades earlier, before labor agreements included an express promise of lifetime ben-
efits. In a fractured opinion, the justices ruled 5–4 that the scheme’s severe retroac-
tive effect offended the Constitution, though differing on the governing clause. Four
of the majority justices based the judgment solely on takings law, while opining that
“there is a question” whether the statute violated due process as well. The remain-
ing majority justice, and the four dissenters, viewed substantive due process as the
sole appropriate framework for resolving the case, but disagreed on whether a viola-
tion had occurred.
     553 Fleming v. Rhodes, 331 U.S. 100, 107 (1947).
     554 FHA v. The Darlington, Inc., 358 U.S. 84, 89–91, 92–93 (1958). Dissenting,

Justices Harlan, Frankfurter, and Whittaker maintained that under the Due Pro-
cess Clause the United States, in its contractual relations, is bound by the same
rules as private individuals unless the action taken falls within the general federal
regulatory power.
     555 Woods v. Stone, 333 U.S. 472 (1948).
