extortion.” 737 The second part of the exaction-takings test, an-
nounced in Dolan v. City of Tigard 738 specifies that the condition,
to not be a taking, must be related to the proposed development
not only in nature, per Nollan, but also in degree. Government must
establish a “rough proportionality” between the burden imposed by
such conditions on the property owner, and the impact of the prop-
erty owner’s proposed development on the community—at least in
the context of adjudicated (rather than legislated) conditions.
     Nollan and Dolan occasioned considerable debate over the breadth
of what became known as the “heightened scrutiny” test. The stakes
were plainly high in that the test, where it applies, lessens the tra-
ditional judicial deference to local police power and places the bur-
den of proof as to rough proportionality on the government. In City
of Monterey v. Del Monte Dunes at Monterey, Ltd.,739 the Court unani-
mously confined the Dolan rough proportionality test, and, by im-
plication, the Nollan nexus test, to the exaction context that gave
rise to those cases. Still unclear, however, was whether the Court
meant to place outside Dolan exactions of a purely monetary na-
ture, in contrast with the physically invasive dedication conditions
involved in Nollan and Dolan.740 The Court clarified this uncer-
tainty in Koontz v. St. Johns River Water Management District by
holding that monetary exactions imposed under land-use permit-
ting were subject to essential nexus/rough proportionality analy-
sis.741
     The announcement following Penn Central of the above per se
rules in Loretto (physical occupations), Agins and Lucas (total elimi-
nation of economic use), and Nollan/Dolan (exaction conditions)
prompted speculation that the Court was replacing its ad hoc Penn
Central approach with a more categorical takings jurisprudence. Such
speculation was put to rest, however, by three decisions from 2001
     737 483 U.S. at 837. Justice Scalia, author of the Court’s opinion in Nollan, am-

plified his views in a concurring and dissenting opinion in Pennell v. City of San
Jose, 485 U.S. 1 (1988), explaining that “common zoning regulations requiring sub-
dividers to observe lot-size and set-back restrictions, and to dedicate certain areas
to public streets, are in accord with [constitutional requirements] because the pro-
posed property use would otherwise be the cause of ” the social evil (e.g., congestion)
that the regulation seeks to remedy. By contrast, the Justice asserted, a rent con-
trol restriction pegged to individual tenant hardship lacks such cause-and-effect re-
lationship and is in reality an attempt to impose on a few individuals public bur-
dens that “should be borne by the public as a whole.” 485 U.S. at 20, 22.
     738 512 U.S. 374 (1994).
     739 526 U.S. 687 (1999).
     740 A hint that monetary exactions may be outside Nollan/Dolan had been pro-

vided in Lingle v. Chevron U.S.A. Inc., 544 U.S. 528, 546 (2005), explaining that
these decisions were grounded on the doctrine of unconstitutional conditions as ap-
plied to easement conditions that would have been per se physical takings if con-
demned directly.
     741 570 U.S. ___, No. 11–1447 (2013).
