bers of the militia, not to members of the regular armed forces. In
1969, in O’Callahan v. Parker, the Court held that offenses that
are not “service connected” may not be punished under military law,
but instead must be tried in the civil courts in the jurisdiction where
the acts took place.34 In 1987, however, this decision was over-
ruled, with the Court emphasizing the “plain language” of Article
I, § 8, clause 14,35 and not directly addressing any possible limita-
tion stemming from the language of the Fifth Amendment.36 “[T]he
requirements of the Constitution are not violated where, as here, a
court-martial is convened to try a serviceman who was a member
of the armed services at the time of the offense charged.” 37 Even
under the service connection rule, it was held that offenses against
the laws of war, whether committed by citizens or by alien enemy
belligerents, could be tried by a military commission.38

                             DOUBLE JEOPARDY

Development and Scope
    “The constitutional prohibition against ‘double jeopardy’ was de-
signed to protect an individual from being subjected to the hazards
of trial and possible conviction more than once for an alleged of-
fense. . . . The underlying idea, one that is deeply ingrained in at
least the Anglo-American system of jurisprudence, is that the State
with all its resources and power should not be allowed to make re-
peated attempts to convict an individual for an alleged offense, thereby
subjecting him to embarrassment, expense and ordeal and compel-
ling him to live in a continuing state of anxiety and insecurity, as
well as enhancing the possibility that even though innocent he may

     34 395 U.S. 258 (1969); see also Relford v. Commandant, 401 U.S. 355 (1971)

(offense committed on military base against persons lawfully on base was service
connected). But courts-martial of civilian dependents and discharged servicemen have
been barred. Id. See “Trial and Punishment of Offenses: Servicemen, Civilian Em-
ployees, and Dependents” under Article I.
     35 This clause confers power on Congress to “make rules for the government and

regulation of the land and naval forces.”
     36 Solorio v. United States, 483 U.S. 435 (1987). A 5–4 majority favored overrul-

ing O’Callahan: Chief Justice Rehnquist’s opinion for the Court was joined by Jus-
tices White, Powell, O’Connor, and Scalia. Justice Stevens concurred in the judg-
ment but thought it unnecessary to reexamine O’Callahan. Dissenting Justice Marshall,
joined by Justices Brennan and Blackmun, thought the service connection rule jus-
tified by the language of the Fifth Amendment’s exception, based on the nature of
cases (those “arising in the land or naval forces”) rather than the status of defen-
dants.
     37 483 U.S. at 450–51.
     38 Ex parte Quirin, 317 U.S. 1, 43, 44 (1942).
