mentary rules of procedure adopted by the Commission, indepen-
dently of statutory authorization, under which state electoral offi-
cials and others accused of discrimination and summoned to appear
at its hearings, are not apprised of the identity of their accusers,
and witnesses, including the former, are not accorded a right to con-
front and cross-examine witnesses or accusers testifying at such hear-
ings. Such procedural rights, the Court maintained, have not been
granted by grand juries, congressional committees, or administra-
tive agencies conducting purely fact-finding investigations in no way
determining private rights.
    Aliens: Entry and Deportation.—The Court has frequently said
that Congress exercises “sovereign” or “plenary” power over the sub-
stance of immigration law, and this power is at its greatest when it
comes to exclusion of aliens.455 To aliens who have never been natu-
ralized or acquired any domicile or residence in the United States,
the decision of an executive or administrative officer, acting within
powers expressly conferred by Congress, with regard to whether or
not they shall be permitted to enter the country, is due process of
law.456 Because the status of a resident alien returning from abroad
is equivalent to that of an entering alien, his exclusion by the At-
torney General without a hearing, on the basis of secret, undis-
closed information, also is deemed consistent with due process.457
The complete authority of Congress in the matter of admission of
opportunity to appear and be heard in executive session, with a reasonable number
of additional witnesses requested by him, before the Commission can make public
such evidence or testimony. Further, any such person, before the evidence or testi-
mony is released, must be afforded an opportunity to appear publicly to state his
side and to file verified statements with the Commission which it must release with
any report or other document containing defaming, degrading, or incriminating evi-
dence or testimony. Pub. L. 91–521, § 4, 84 Stat. 1357 (1970), 42 U.S.C. § 1975a(e).
Cf. Jenkins v. McKeithen, 395 U.S. 411 (1969).
     455 See discussion under Art. I, § 8, cl. 4, The Power of Congress to Exclude Aliens.
     456 United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U.S. 253, 263 (1905). See also The Japanese

Immigrant Case (Yamataya v. Fisher), 189 U.S. 86 (1903). Cf. United States ex rel.
Knauff v. Shaughnessy, 338 U.S. 537 (1950).
     457 Shaughnessy v. United States ex rel. Mezei, 345 U.S. 206 (1953). The long

continued detention on Ellis Island of a non-deportable alien does not change his
status or give rise to any right of judicial review. In dissent, Justices Black and
Douglas maintained that the protracted confinement on Ellis Island without a hear-
ing could not be reconciled with due process. Also dissenting, Justices Frankfurter
and Jackson contended that when indefinite commitment on Ellis Island becomes
the means of enforcing exclusion, due process requires that a hearing precede such
deprivation of liberty.
     Cf. Kwong Hai Chew v. Colding, 344 U.S. 590, 596 (1953), in which the Court,
after acknowledging that resident aliens held for deportation are entitled to proce-
dural due process, ruled that as a matter of law the Attorney General must accord
notice of the charges and a hearing to a resident alien seaman who is sought to be
“expelled” upon his return from a voyage overseas. Knauff was distinguished on the
ground that the seaman’s status was not that of an entrant, but rather that of a
resident alien. See also Leng May Ma v. Barber, 357 U.S. 185 (1958).
