of revenue, and not the punishment of gamblers, . . . but the char-
acteristics of the activities about which information is sought, and
the composition of the groups to which inquiries are made, readily
distinguish this situation from that in Shapiro.” 271
     Most recent in this line of cases is California v. Byers,272 which
indicates that the Court has yet to settle on an ascertainable stan-
dard for judging self-incrimination claims in cases where govern-
ment is asserting an interest other than criminal law enforcement.
Byers sustained the constitutionality of a statute which required the
driver of any automobile involved in an accident to stop and give
his name and address. The state court had held that a driver who
reasonably believed that compliance with the statute would result
in self-incrimination could refuse to comply. A plurality of the Court,
however, determined that Sullivan and Shapiro applied and not the
Albertson-Marchetti line of cases, because the purpose of the stat-
ute was to promote the satisfaction of civil liabilities resulting from
automobile accidents and not criminal prosecutions, and because the
statute was directed to all drivers and not to a group which was
either “highly selective” or “inherently suspect of criminal activi-
ties.” The combination of a noncriminal motive with the general char-
acter of the requirement made too slight for reliance the possibility
of incrimination.273 Justice Harlan concurred to make up the major-
ity on the disposition of the case, disagreeing with the plurality’s
conclusion that the stop and identification requirement did not com-
pel incrimination.274 However, the Justice thought that, where there
is no governmental purpose to enforce a criminal law and instead
government is pursuing other legitimate regulatory interests, it is
permissible to apply a balancing test between the government’s in-
terest and the individual’s interest. When he balanced the inter-
    271  Marchetti v. United States, 390 U.S. 39, 57 (1968).
    272  402 U.S. 424 (1971).
     273 402 U.S. at 427–31 (Chief Justice Burger and Justices Stewart, White, and

Blackmun).
     274 “The California Supreme Court was surely correct in considering that the

decisions of this Court have made it clear that invocation of the privilege is not lim-
ited to situations where the purpose of the inquiry is to get an incriminating an-
swer. . . . [I]t must be recognized that a reading of our more recent cases . . . sug-
gests the conclusion that the applicability of the privilege depends exclusively on a
determination that, from the individual’s point of view, there are ‘real’ and not ‘imagi-
nary’ risks of self-incrimination in yielding to state compulsion. Thus, Marchetti and
Grosso . . . start from an assumption of a non-prosecutorial governmental purpose
in the decision to tax gambling revenue; those cases go on to apply what in another
context I have called the ‘real danger v. imaginary possibility standard’ . . . . A judi-
cial tribunal whose position with respect to the elaboration of constitutional doc-
trine is subordinate to that of this Court certainly cannot be faulted for reading
these opinions as indicating that the ‘inherently-suspect-class’ factor is relevant only
as an indicium of genuine incriminating risk as assessed from the individual’s point
of view.” 402 U.S. at 437–38.
