may be proceeded against by both because each may have different
interests to serve.143 The same conduct may transgress two or more
different statutes, because laws reach lesser and greater parts of
one item of conduct, or may violate the same statute more than
once, as when one robs several people in a group at the same time.
     Legislative Discretion as to Multiple Sentences.—It fre-
quently happens that one activity of a criminal nature will violate
one or more laws or that one or more violations may be charged.144
Although the question is not totally free of doubt, it appears that
the Double Jeopardy Clause does not limit the legislative power to
split a single transaction into separate crimes so as to give the pros-
ecution a choice of charges that may be tried in one proceeding,
thereby making multiple punishments possible for essentially one
transaction.145 “Where . . . a legislature specifically authorizes cu-
mulative punishment under two statutes, regardless of whether those
two statutes proscribe the ‘same’ conduct under Blockburger, a court’s
task of statutory construction is at an end and . . . the trial court
or jury may impose cumulative punishment under such statutes in
a single trial.” 146
     The clause does, however, create a rule of construction—a pre-
sumption against the judiciary imposing multiple punishments for
    143  See discussion supra under “Development and Scope.”
    144  There are essentially two kinds of situations here. There are “double-
description” cases in which criminal law contains more than one prohibition for con-
duct arising out of a single transaction. E.g., Gore v. United States, 357 U.S. 386,
392–93 (1958) (one sale of narcotics resulted in three separate counts: (1) sale of
drugs not in pursuance of a written order, (2) sale of drugs not in the original stamped
package, and (3) sale of drugs with knowledge that they had been unlawfully im-
ported). And there are “unit-of-prosecution” cases in which the same conduct may
violate the same statutory prohibition more than once. E.g., Bell v. United States,
349 U.S. 81 (1955) (defendant who transported two women across state lines for an
immoral purpose in one trip in same car indicted on two counts of violating Mann
Act). See Westen & Drubel, Toward a General Theory of Double Jeopardy, 1978 SUP.
CT. REV. 81, 111–22.
     145 Albernaz v. United States, 450 U.S. 333, 343–44 (1981) (defendants con-

victed on separate counts of conspiracy to import marijuana and conspiracy to dis-
tribute marijuana, both charges relating to the same marijuana.) The concurrence
objected that the clause does preclude multiple punishments for separate statutory
offenses unless each requires proof of a fact that the others do not. Id. at 344. Be-
cause the case involved separate offenses that met this test, Albernaz strictly speak-
ing is not a square holding and previous dicta is otherwise, but Albernaz’s dicta is
well-considered in view of the positions of at least four of its Justices who have ob-
jected to the dicta in other cases suggesting a constitutional restraint by the clause.
Whalen v. United States, 445 U.S. 684, 695, 696, 699 (1980) (Justices White, Blackmun,
Rehnquist, and Chief Justice Burger).
     146 Missouri v. Hunter, 459 U.S. 359, 368–69 (1983) (separate offenses of “first

degree robbery,” defined to include robbery under threat of violence, and “armed crimi-
nal action”). Only Justices Marshall and Stevens dissented, arguing that the legisla-
ture should not be totally free to prescribe multiple punishment for the same con-
duct, and that the same rules should govern multiple prosecutions and multiple
punishments.
