    Procedure in the Trial Courts.—The Court has placed consti-
tutional limitations upon the procedures followed by trial courts for
determining the admissibility of confessions and other incriminat-
ing admissions. Three procedures were developed over time to deal
with the question of admissibility when involuntariness was claimed.
By the orthodox method, the trial judge heard all the evidence on
voluntariness in a separate and preliminary hearing, and if he found
the confession involuntary the jury never received it, while if he
found it voluntary the jury received it with the right to consider its
weight and credibility, which consideration included the circum-
stances of its making. By the New York method, the judge first re-
viewed the confession under a standard leading to its exclusion only
if he found it not possible that “reasonable men could differ over
the [factual] inferences to be drawn” from it; otherwise, the jury
would receive the confession with instructions to first determine its
voluntariness and to consider it if it were voluntary and to disre-
gard it if it were not. By the Massachusetts method, the trial judge
himself determined the voluntariness question and if he found the
confession involuntary the jury never received it; if he found it to
have been voluntarily made he permitted the jury to receive it with
instructions that the jurors should make their own independent de-
termination of voluntariness.406
    The New York method was upheld against constitutional at-
tack in Stein v. New York,407 but eleven years later a five-to-four
decision in Jackson v. Denno,408 found it inadequate to protect the
due process rights of defendants. The procedure did not, the Court
held, ensure a “reliable determination on the issue of voluntari-
ness” and did not sufficiently guarantee that convictions would not
be grounded on involuntary confessions. Because there was only a
general jury verdict of guilty, it was impossible to determine whether
the jury had first focused on the issue of voluntariness and then
either had found the confession voluntary and considered it on the
question of guilt or had found it involuntary, disregarded it, and
reached a conclusion of guilt on wholly independent evidence. It was
doubtful that a jury could appreciate the values served by the ex-
clusion of involuntary confessions and put out of mind the content
     406 Jackson v. Denno, 378 U.S. 368, 410–23 (1964) (appendix to opinion of Jus-

tice Black concurring in part and dissenting in part).
     407 346 U.S. 156, 170–79 (1953). Significant to the Court’s conclusion on this

matter was the further conclusion of the majority that coerced confessions were in-
admissible solely because of their unreliability; if their trustworthiness could be es-
tablished the utilization of an involuntary confession violated no constitutional pro-
hibition. This conception was contrary to earlier cases and was subsequently repudiated.
See Jackson v. Denno, 378 U.S. 368, 383–87 (1964).
     408 378 U.S. 368 (1964). On the sufficiency of state court determinations, see Swenson

v. Stidham, 409 U.S. 224 (1972); La Vallee v. Della Rose, 410 U.S. 690 (1973).
