court below had erred in extending its review, for the purpose of
determining compliance with the Due Process Clause, to such mat-
ters as the propositions of law set forth in the staff judge advo-
cate’s report, the sufficiency of the evidence to sustain conviction,
the adequacy of the pre-trial investigation, and the competence of
the law member and defense counsel. In summary, Justice Clark
wrote: “In this case the court-martial had jurisdiction of the person
accused and the offense charged, and acted within its lawful pow-
ers. The correction of any errors it may have committed is for the
military authorities which are alone authorized to review its deci-
sion.” 483 Similarly, in Burns v. Wilson,484 the Court denied a peti-
tion for the writ to review a conviction by a military tribunal on
the Island of Guam in which the petitioners asserted that their im-
prisonment resulted from proceedings that violated their constitu-
tional rights. Four Justices, with whom Justice Minton concurred,
maintained that judicial review is limited to determining whether
the military tribunal, or court-martial, had given fair consideration
to each of petitioners’ allegations, and does not embrace an oppor-
tunity “to prove de novo” what petitioners had “failed to prove in
the military courts.” According to Justice Minton, however, if the
military court had jurisdiction, its action is not reviewable.
Substantive Due Process
     Justice Harlan, dissenting in Poe v. Ullman,485 observed that
one view of due process, “ably and insistently argued . . . , sought
to limit the provision to a guarantee of procedural fairness.” But,
he continued, due process “in the consistent view of this Court has
ever been a broader concept . . . . Were due process merely a pro-
cedural safeguard it would fail to reach those situations where the
deprivation of life, liberty or property was accomplished by legisla-
tion which by operating in the future could, given even the fairest
possible procedure in application to individuals, nevertheless de-
stroy the enjoyment of all three. . . . Thus the guaranties of due
process, though having their roots in Magna Carta’s ‘per legem ter-
rae ‘ and considered as procedural safeguards ‘against executive usur-
pation and tyranny,’ have in this country ‘become bulwarks also against
arbitrary legislation.’ ”
     Discrimination.— Literally speaking, the Fifth Amendment,
unlike the Fourteenth Amendment, “contains no equal protection
    483 339 U.S. at 111.
    484 346 U.S. 137 (1953).
    485 367 U.S. 497, 540, 541 (1961). The internal quotation is from Hurtado v. Cali-

fornia, 110 U.S. 516, 532 (1884). Development of substantive due process is briefly
noted above under “Scope of the Guaranty” and is treated more extensively under
the Fourteenth Amendment.
