And Congress must be plain as well when the issue is not whether
it has exempted a state action from the Commerce Clause but whether
it has taken the less direct form of reduction in the level of scru-
tiny.1000
State Taxation and Regulation: The Old Law
    In 1959, the Supreme Court acknowledged that, with respect
to the taxing power of the states in light of the negative (or “dor-
mant”) commerce clause, “some three hundred full-dress opinions”
as of that year had not resulted in “consistent or reconcilable” doc-
trine but rather in something more resembling a “quagmire.” 1001
Although many of the principles still applicable in constitutional law
may be found in the older cases, the Court has worked a revolution
in this area, though at different times for taxation and for regula-
tion. Thus, in this section we summarize the “old” law and then
deal more fully with the “modern” law of the negative commerce
clause.
    General Considerations.—The task of drawing the line be-
tween state power and the commercial interest has proved a com-
paratively simple one in the field of foreign commerce, the two things
being in great part territorially distinct.1002 With “commerce among
the States” affairs are very different. Interstate commerce is con-
ducted in the interior of the country, by persons and corporations
that are ordinarily engaged also in local business; its usual inci-
dents are acts that, if unconnected with commerce among the states,
would fall within the state’s powers of police and taxation, while
the things it deals in and the instruments by which it is carried on
comprise the most ordinary subject matter of state power. In this
authority” over interstate transmissions held not to evince a congressional intent
“to alter the limits of state power otherwise imposed by the Commerce Clause”).
But see White v. Massachusetts Council of Construction Employers, 460 U.S. 204
(1983) (Congress held to have sanctioned municipality’s favoritism of city residents
through funding statute under which construction funds were received).
     1000 Maine v. Taylor, 477 U.S. 131 (1986) (holding that Lacey Act’s reinforce-

ment of state bans on importation of fish and wildlife neither authorizes state law
otherwise invalid under the Clause nor shifts analysis from the presumption of in-
validity for discriminatory laws to the balancing test for state laws that burden com-
merce only incidentally).
     1001 Northwestern States Portland Cement Co. v. Minnesota, 358 U.S. 450, 457–58

(1959) (quoting Miller Bros. Co. v. Maryland, 347 U.S. 340, 344 (1954)). Justice Frank-
furter was similarly skeptical of definitive statements. “To attempt to harmonize all
that has been said in the past would neither clarify what has gone before nor guide
the future. Suffice it to say that especially in this field opinions must be read in the
setting of the particular cases and as the product of preoccupation with their spe-
cial facts.” Freeman v. Hewit, 329 U.S. 249, 251–52 (1946). The comments in all
three cases dealt with taxation, but they could just as well have included regula-
tion.
     1002 See J. HELLERSTEIN & W. HELLERSTEIN, STATE AND LOCAL TAXATION: CASES AND MA-

TERIALS (8th ed. 2005), ch. 5.
