Commerce is one of those objects. The care, protection, manage-
ment and control, of this great national concern, is, in my opinion,
vested by the Constitution, in the Congress of the United States;
and their power is sovereign, relative to commercial intercourse, quali-
fied by the limitations and restrictions, expressed in that instru-
ment, and by the treaty making power of the President and Sen-
ate. . . . Power to regulate, it is said, cannot be understood to give
a power to annihilate. To this it may be replied, that the acts un-
der consideration, though of very ample extent, do not operate as a
prohibition of all foreign commerce. It will be admitted that partial
prohibitions are authorized by the expression; and how shall the
degree, or extent, of the prohibition be adjusted, but by the discre-
tion of the National Government, to whom the subject appears to
be committed? . . . The term does not necessarily include shipping
or navigation; much less does it include the fisheries. Yet it never
has contended, that they are not the proper objects of national regu-
lation; and several acts of Congress have been made respecting
them. . . . [Furthermore] if it be admitted that national regula-
tions relative to commerce, may apply it as an instrument, and are
not necessarily confined to its direct aid and advancement, the sphere
of legislative discretion is, of course, more widely extended; and, in
time of war, or of great impending peril, it must take a still more
expanded range.”
     “Congress has power to declare war. It, of course, has power to
prepare for war; and the time, the manner, and the measure, in
the application of constitutional means, seem to be left to its wis-
dom and discretion. . . . Under the Confederation, . . . we find an
express reservation to the State legislatures of the power to pass
prohibitory commercial laws, and, as respects exportations, with-
out any limitations. Some of them exercised this power. . . . Un-
less Congress, by the Constitution, possess the power in question,
it still exists in the State legislatures—but this has never been claimed
or pretended, since the adoption of the Federal Constitution; and
the exercise of such a power by the States, would be manifestly in-
consistent with the power, vested by the people in Congress, ‘to regu-
late commerce.’ Hence I infer, that the power, reserved to the States
by the articles of Confederation, is surrendered to Congress, by the
Constitution; unless we suppose, that, by some strange process, it
has been merged or extinguished, and now exists no where.” 844
     Foreign Commerce: Protective Tariffs.—Tariff laws have cus-
tomarily contained prohibitory provisions, and such provisions have
    844 United States v. The William, 28 Fed. Cas. 614, 620–623 (No. 16,700) (D.

Mass. 1808). See also Gibbons v. Ogden, 22 U.S. (9 Wheat.) 1, 191 (1824); United
States v. Marigold, 50 U.S. (9 How.) 560 (1850).
