borne, than the risk be run, in the effort to suppress them, of more
serious consequences by resort to expedients of even doubtful con-
stitutionality.” 778
    In short, what was needed, the Court felt, was a hard and fast
line between the two spheres of power, and, in a series of proposi-
tions, it endeavored to lay down such a line: (1) production is al-
ways local, and under the exclusive domain of the states; (2) com-
merce among the states does not begin until goods “commence their
final movement from their State of origin to that of their destina-
tion;” (3) the sale of a product is merely an incident of its produc-
tion and, while capable of “bringing the operation of commerce into
play,” affects it only incidentally; (4) such restraint as would reach
commerce, as above defined, in consequence of combinations to con-
trol production “in all its forms,” would be “indirect, however inevi-
table and whatever its extent,” and as such beyond the purview of
the Act.779 Applying this reasoning to the case before it, the Court
proceeded: “The object [of the combination] was manifestly private
gain in the manufacture of the commodity, but not through the con-
trol of interstate or foreign commerce. It is true that the bill al-
leged that the products of these refineries were sold and distrib-
uted among the several States, and that all the companies were
engaged in trade or commerce with the several States and with for-
eign nations; but this was no more than to say that trade and com-
merce served manufacture to fulfill its function.”
    “Sugar was refined for sale, and sales were probably made at
Philadelphia for consumption, and undoubtedly for resale by the first
purchasers throughout Pennsylvania and other States, and refined
sugar was also forwarded by the companies to other States for sale.
Nevertheless it does not follow that an attempt to monopolize, or
the actual monopoly of, the manufacture was an attempt, whether
executory or consummated, to monopolize commerce, even though,
in order to dispose of the product, the instrumentality of commerce
was necessarily invoked. There was nothing in the proofs to indi-
cate any intention to put a restraint upon trade or commerce, and
the fact, as we have seen, that trade or commerce might be indi-
rectly affected was not enough to entitle complainants to a de-
cree.” 780
    778 156 U.S. at 13.
    779 156 U.S. at 13–16.
    780 156 U.S. at 17. The doctrine of the case boiled down to the proposition that

commerce was transportation only, a doctrine Justice Harlan undertook to refute in
his notable dissenting opinion. “Interstate commerce does not, therefore, consist in
transportation simply. It includes the purchase and sale of articles that are in-
tended to be transported from one State to another—every species of commercial
intercourse among the States and with foreign nations.” 156 U.S. at 22. “Any combi-
