dio,774 and the Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938, providing for the regu-
lation of all phases of airborne commerce, foreign and interstate.775

Congressional Regulation of Commerce as Traffic
    The Sherman Act: Sugar Trust Case.—Congress’s chief ef-
fort to regulate commerce in the primary sense of “traffic” is embod-
ied in the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890, the opening section of
which declares “every contract, combination in the form of trust or
otherwise,” or “conspiracy in restraint of trade and commerce among
the several States, or with foreign nations” to be “illegal,” while the
second section makes it a misdemeanor for anybody to “monopolize
or attempt to monopolize any part of such commerce.” 776 The act
was passed to curb the growing tendency to form industrial combi-
nations, and the first case to reach the Court under it was the fa-
mous Sugar Trust Case, United States v. E. C. Knight Co.777 Here
the government asked for the cancellation of certain agreements,
whereby the American Sugar Refining Company, had “acquired,” it
was conceded, “nearly complete control of the manufacture of re-
fined sugar in the United States.”
     The question of the validity of the Act was not expressly dis-
cussed by the Court but was subordinated to that of its proper con-
struction. The Court, in pursuance of doctrines of constitutional law
then dominant with it, turned the Act from its intended purpose
and destroyed its effectiveness for several years, as that of the In-
terstate Commerce Act was being contemporaneously impaired. The
following passage early in Chief Justice Fuller’s opinion for the Court
sets forth the conception of the federal system that controlled the
decision: “It is vital that the independence of the commercial power
and of the police power, and the delimination between them, how-
ever sometimes perplexing, should always be recognized and ob-
served, for while the one furnishes the strongest bond of union, the
other is essential to the preservation of the autonomy of the States
as required by our dual form of government; and acknowledged evils,
however grave and urgent they may appear to be, had better be

     774 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. §§ 151 et seq. Cf. United States v. Southwestern

Cable Co., 392 U.S. 157 (1968), on the regulation of community antenna television
systems (CATV).
     775 52 Stat. 973, as amended. The CAB has now been abolished and its func-

tions are exercised by the Federal Aviation Administration, 49 U.S.C. § 106, as part
of the Department of Transportation.
     776 26 Stat. 209 (1890); 15 U.S.C. §§ 1–7.
     777 156 U.S. 1 (1895).
