ing Clause is in the nature of a contract, Justice Robert’s opinion
suggests that the only changes that could be made to Medicaid would
be those that could be reasonably anticipated by the states as they
entered the original program, when only four categories of persons
in financial need were covered: the disabled, the blind, the elderly,
and needy families with dependent children. The Medicaid expan-
sion arguably changed the nature of the program by requiring re-
cipient states, as part of a universal health care system, to meet
the health care needs of the entire nonelderly population with in-
come below 133% of the poverty level.639 Thus, the Medicaid expan-
sion “accomplishe[d] a shift in kind, not merely degree.” 640
    Once Justice Roberts established that the Medicaid expansion
was a “new” and “independent” program, he then turned to whether
withdrawal of existing Medicaid funds for failure to implement the
expansion was coercive. Justice Roberts noted that the threatened
loss of Medicaid funds was “over 10 percent of most State’s total
revenue,” which he characterized as a form of “economic dragoon-
ing” which put a “gun to the head” of the states.641 Justice Roberts
contrasted this amount with the amount of federal transportation
funds threatened to be withheld from South Dakota in Dole, which
he characterized as less than half of one percent of South Dakota’s
budget. How courts are to consider grant withdrawals between 10
percent and one-half of 1 percent, however, is not addressed by the
Roberts’ opinion, and Justice Roberts declined to speculate where
such a line would be drawn.
     If a state accepts federal funds on conditions and then fails to
follow the requirements, the usual remedy is federal administra-
tive action to terminate the funding and to recoup funds the state
has already received.642 Although the Court has allowed beneficia-
ries of conditional grant programs to sue to compel states to com-

discussion of “new” and “independent programs” emphasized the concerns of the Tenth
Amendment. Second, under Dole, the “relatedness” and “coercion” inquiries appear
to be disjunctive, in that failure to comply with either of these factors would mean
that the statute was unconstitutional. Under NFIB, however, the “new” and “inde-
pendent” program inquiry and the “coercion” inquiry appear to be conjunctive, so
that a grant condition must apparently fail both tests to be found unconstitutional.
    639 Justice Roberts also noted that Congress created a separate funding provi-

sion to cover the costs of providing services to any person made newly eligible by
the expansion, and mandated that newly eligible persons would receive a level of
coverage that is less comprehensive than the traditional Medicaid benefit package.
    640 567 U.S. ___, slip op. at 53.
    641 567 U.S. ___, slip op. at 10, 51–52.
    642 Bell v. New Jersey, 461 U.S. 773 (1983); Bennett v. New Jersey, 470 U.S.

632 (1985); Bennett v. Kentucky Dep’t of Education, 470 U.S. 656 (1985).
