and that sold “locally,” and other machinery for the regulation of
hours of labor and wages in the mines. The clauses of the act deal-
ing with these two different matters were declared by the act itself
to be separable so that the invalidity of the one set would not af-
fect the validity of the other, but this strategy was ineffectual. A
majority of the Court, speaking by Justice Sutherland, held that
the act constituted one connected scheme of regulation, which, be-
cause it invaded the reserved powers of the states over conditions
of employment in productive industry, violated the Constitution.808
Justice Sutherland’s opinion set out from Chief Justice Hughes’ as-
sertion in the Schechter case of the “fundamental” character of the
distinction between “direct” and “indirect” effects, that is to say, from
the doctrine of the Sugar Trust case. It then proceeded: “Much stress
is put upon the evils which come from the struggle between employ-
ers and employees over the matter of wages, working conditions,
the right of collective bargaining, etc., and the resulting strikes, cur-
tailment and irregularity of production and effect on prices; and it
is insisted that interstate commerce is greatly affected thereby. But
. . . the conclusive answer is that the evils are all local evils over
which the Federal Government has no legislative control. The rela-
tion of employer and employee is a local relation. At common law,
it is one of the domestic relations. The wages are paid for the do-
ing of local work. Working conditions are obviously local condi-
tions. The employees are not engaged in or about commerce, but
exclusively in producing a commodity. And the controversies and evils,
which it is the object of the act to regulate and minimize, are local
controversies and evils affecting local work undertaken to accom-
plish that local result. Such effect as they may have upon com-
merce, however extensive it may be, is secondary and indirect. An
increase in the greatness of the effect adds to its importance. It does
not alter its character.” 809
    Railroad Retirement Act.—Still pursuing the idea of protect-
ing commerce and the labor engaged in it concurrently, Congress,
by the Railroad Retirement Act of June 27, 1934,810 ordered the com-
pulsory retirement of superannuated employees of interstate carri-
ers, and provided that they be paid pensions out of a fund compris-
ing compulsory contributions from the carriers and their present
and future employees. In Railroad Retirement Bd. v. Alton R.R.,811
however, a closely divided Court held this legislation to be in ex-
cess of Congress’s power to regulate commerce and contrary to the

   808 Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U.S. 238 (1936).
   809 298 U.S. at 308–09.
   810 48 Stat. 1283.
   811 295 U.S. 330 (1935).
