legislation. . . . [The issue of constitutionality] is ultimately a judi-
cial rather than a legislative question, and can be settled finally
only by this Court.” 917
     The problem with the VAWA findings was that they “relied heav-
ily” on the reasoning rejected in Lopez—the “but-for causal chain
from the initial occurrence of crime . . . to every attenuated effect
upon interstate commerce.” As the Court had explained in Lopez,
acceptance of this reasoning would eliminate the distinction be-
tween what is truly national and what is truly local, and would al-
low Congress to regulate virtually any activity, and basically any
crime.918 Accordingly, the Court “reject[ed] the argument that Con-
gress may regulate noneconomic, violent criminal conduct based solely
on that conduct’s aggregate effect on interstate commerce.” Resur-
recting the dual federalism dichotomy, the Court could find “no bet-
ter example of the police power, which the Founders denied the Na-
tional Government and reposed in the States, than the suppression
of violent crime and vindication of its victims.” 919
    Yet, the ultimate impact of these cases on Congress’s power over
commerce may be limited. In Gonzales v. Raich,920 the Court reaf-
firmed an expansive application of Wickard v. Filburn, and sig-
naled that its jurisprudence is unlikely to threaten the enforce-
ment of broad regulatory schemes based on the Commerce Clause.
In Raich, the Court considered whether the cultivation, distribu-
tion, or possession of marijuana for personal medical purposes pur-
suant to the California Compassionate Use Act of 1996 could be pros-
ecuted under the federal Controlled Substances Act (CSA).921 The
respondents argued that this class of activities should be consid-
ered as separate and distinct from the drug-trafficking that was the
focus of the CSA, and that regulation of this limited non-
commercial use of marijuana should be evaluated separately.
    In Raich, the Court declined the invitation to apply Lopez and
Morrison to select applications of a statute, holding that the Court
would defer to Congress if there was a rational basis to believe that
regulation of home-consumed marijuana would affect the market for
marijuana generally. The Court found that there was a “rational
    917  529 U.S. at 614.
    918  529 U.S. at 615–16. Applying the principle of constitutional doubt, the Court
in Jones v. United States, 529 U.S. 848 (2000), interpreted the federal arson statute
as inapplicable to the arson of a private, owner-occupied residence. Were the statute
interpreted to apply to such residences, the Court noted, “hardly a building in the
land would fall outside [its] domain,” and the statute’s validity under Lopez would
be squarely raised. 529 U.S. at 857.
     919 529 U.S. at 618.
     920 545 U.S. 1 (2005).
     921 84 Stat. 1242, 21 U.S.C. §§ 801 et seq.
