of certain agricultural products, when the handling of such prod-
ucts occurs “in the current of interstate or foreign commerce or . . .
directly burdens, obstructs or affects interstate or foreign com-
merce in such commodity or product thereof.” In United States v.
Wrightwood Dairy Co.,838 the Court sustained an order of the Sec-
retary of Agriculture fixing the minimum prices to be paid to pro-
ducers of milk in the Chicago “marketing area.” The dairy com-
pany demurred to the regulation on the ground it applied to milk
produced and sold intrastate. Sustaining the order, the Court said:
“Congress plainly has power to regulate the price of milk distrib-
uted through the medium of interstate commerce . . . and it pos-
sesses every power needed to make that regulation effective. The
commerce power is not confined in its exercise to the regulation of
commerce among the States. It extends to those activities intra-
state which so affect interstate commerce, or the exertion of the power
of Congress over it, as to make regulation of them appropriate means
to the attainment of a legitimate end, the effective execution of the
granted power to regulate interstate commerce. The power of Con-
gress over interstate commerce is plenary and complete in itself,
may be exercised to its utmost extent, and acknowledges no limita-
tions other than are prescribed in the Constitution. . . . It follows
that no form of State activity can constitutionally thwart the regu-
latory power granted by the commerce clause to Congress. Hence
the reach of that power extends to those intrastate activities which
in a substantial way interfere with or obstruct the exercise of the
granted power.” 839
    In Wickard v. Filburn,840 the Court sustained a still deeper pen-
etration by Congress into the field of production. As amended by
the act of 1941, the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 841 regu-
lated production even when not intended for commerce but wholly
for consumption on the producer’s farm. Sustaining this extension
of the act, the Court pointed out that the effect of the statute was
to support the market. “It can hardly be denied that a factor of such
volume and variability as home-consumed wheat would have a sub-
stantial influence on price and market conditions. This may arise
because being in marketable condition such wheat overhangs the
market and, if induced by rising prices, tends to flow into the mar-
ket and check price increases. But if we assume that it is never
    838 315 U.S. 110 (1942). The Court had previously upheld other legislation that

regulated agricultural production through limitations on sales in or affecting inter-
state commerce. Currin v. Wallace, 306 U.S. 1 (1939); Mulford v. Smith, 307 U.S. 38
(1939).
    839 315 U.S. at 118–19.
    840 317 U.S. 111 (1942).
    841 52 Stat. 31, 7 U.S.C. §§ 612c, 1281–1282 et seq.
