ing of customs duties is to create revenue, and that it is unconsti-
tutional to frame the customs duties with any other view than that
of revenue raising.” 597
    Chief Justice Taft, writing for the Court in Hampton, observed
that the first Congress in 1789 had enacted a protective tariff. “In
this first Congress sat many members of the Constitutional Conven-
tion of 1787. This Court has repeatedly laid down the principle that
a contemporaneous legislative exposition of the Constitution when
the founders of our Government and framers of our Constitution
were actively participating in public affairs, long acquiesced in, fixes
the construction to be given its provisions. . . . The enactment and
enforcement of a number of customs revenue laws drawn with a
motive of maintaining a system of protection, since the revenue law
of 1789, are matters of history. . . . Whatever we may think of the
wisdom of a protection policy, we cannot hold it unconstitutional.
So long as the motive of Congress and the effect of its legislative
action are to secure revenue for the benefit of the general govern-
ment, the existence of other motives in the selection of the subjects
of taxes cannot invalidate Congressional action.” 598
            SPENDING FOR THE GENERAL WELFARE

Scope of the Power
     The grant of power to “provide . . . for the general welfare” raises
a two-fold question: how may Congress provide for “the general wel-
fare” and what is “the general welfare” that it is authorized to pro-
mote? The first half of this question was answered by Thomas Jef-
ferson in his opinion on the Bank as follows: “[T]he laying of taxes
is the power, and the general welfare the purpose for which the power
is to be exercised. They [Congress] are not to lay taxes ad libitum
for any purpose they please; but only to pay the debts or provide
for the welfare of the Union. In like manner, they are not to do
anything they please to provide for the general welfare, but only to
lay taxes for that purpose.” 599 The clause, in short, is not an inde-
pendent grant of power, but a qualification of the taxing power. Al-
though a broader view has been occasionally asserted,600 Congress
has not acted upon it and the Court has had no occasion to adjudi-
cate the point.
     With respect to the meaning of “the general welfare” the pages
of The Federalist itself disclose a sharp divergence of views be-
    597 276 U.S. 394, 411 (1928).
    598 276 U.S. at 412.
    599 3 WRITINGS OF THOMAS JEFFERSON 147–149 (Library Edition, 1904).
    600 See W. CROSSKEY, POLITICS AND THE CONSTITUTION IN THE HISTORY OF   THE   UNITED
STATES (1953).
