Illegal Commerce
     That Congress’s protective power over interstate commerce reaches
all kinds of obstructions and impediments was made clear in United
States v. Ferger.698 The defendants had been indicted for issuing a
false bill of lading to cover a fictitious shipment in interstate com-
merce. Before the Court they argued that, because there could be
no commerce in a fraudulent bill of lading, Congress had no power
to exercise criminal jurisdiction over them. Chief Justice White wrote:
“But this mistakenly assumes that the power of Congress is to be
necessarily tested by the intrinsic existence of commerce in the par-
ticular subject dealt with, instead of by the relation of that subject
to commerce and its effect upon it. We say mistakenly assumes, be-
cause we think it clear that if the proposition were sustained it would
destroy the power of Congress to regulate, as obviously that power,
if it is to exist, must include the authority to deal with obstruc-
tions to interstate commerce . . . and with a host of other acts which,
because of their relation to and influence upon interstate com-
merce, come within the power of Congress to regulate, although they
are not interstate commerce in and of themselves.” 699 Much of Con-
gress’s criminal legislation is based simply on the crossing of a state
line as creating federal jurisdiction.700

Interstate Versus Foreign Commerce
    There are certain dicta urging or suggesting that Congress’s power
to regulate interstate commerce restrictively is less than its analo-
gous power over foreign commerce, the argument being that whereas
the latter is a branch of the Nation’s unlimited power over foreign
relations, the former was conferred upon the National Government
primarily in order to protect freedom of commerce from state inter-
ference. The four dissenting Justices in the Lottery Case endorsed
this view in the following words: “[T]he power to regulate com-
merce with foreign nations and the power to regulate interstate com-
merce, are to be taken diverso intuitu, for the latter was intended
to secure equality and freedom in commercial intercourse as be-
    698  250 U.S. 199 (1919).
    699  250 U.S. at 203.
     700 E.g., Hoke v. United States, 227 U.S. 308 (1913) (transportation of women

for purposes of prostitution); Gooch v. United States, 297 U.S. 124 (1936) (kidnap-
ing); Brooks v. United States, 267 U.S. 432 (1925) (stolen autos). For example, in
Scarborough v. United States, 431 U.S. 563 (1977), the Court upheld a conviction
for possession of a firearm by a felon upon a mere showing that the gun had some-
time previously traveled in interstate commerce, and Barrett v. United States, 423
U.S. 212 (1976), upheld a conviction for receipt of a firearm on the same showing.
The Court does require Congress in these cases to speak plainly in order to reach
such activity, inasmuch as historic state police powers are involved. United States v.
Bass, 404 U.S. 336 (1971).
