recent decisions; 720 and at any rate it would not apply as to a stream
rendered navigable by improvements.721
    In exercising its power to foster and protect navigation, Con-
gress legislates primarily on things external to the act of naviga-
tion. But that act itself and the instruments by which it is accom-
plished are also subject to Congress’s power if and when they enter
into or form a part of “commerce among the several States.” When
does this happen? Words quoted above from the Court’s opinion in
the Gilman case answered this question to some extent; but the
decisive answer to it was returned five years later in the case of
The Daniel Ball.722 Here the question at issue was whether an act
of Congress, passed in 1838 and amended in 1852, which required
that steam vessels engaged in transporting passengers or merchan-
dise upon the “bays, lakes, rivers, or other navigable waters of the
United States,” applied to the case of a vessel that navigated only
the waters of the Grand River, a stream lying entirely in the State
of Michigan. The Court ruled: “In this case it is admitted that the
steamer was engaged in shipping and transporting down Grand River,
goods destined and marked for other States than Michigan, and in
receiving and transporting up the river goods brought within the
State from without its limits; . . . So far as she was employed in
transporting goods destined for other States, or goods brought from
without the limits of Michigan and destined to places within that
State, she was engaged in commerce between the States, and how-
ever limited that commerce may have been, she was, so far as it
went, subject to the legislation of Congress. She was employed as
an instrument of that commerce; for whenever a commodity has be-
gun to move as an article of trade from one State to another, com-
merce in that commodity between the States has commenced.” 723
    Counsel had suggested that if the vessel was in commerce be-
cause it was part of a stream of commerce then all transportation
within a State was commerce. Turning to this point, the Court added:
“We answer that the present case relates to transportation on the
navigable waters of the United States, and we are not called upon
to express an opinion upon the power of Congress over interstate
commerce when carried on by land transportation. And we answer
further, that we are unable to draw any clear and distinct line be-
tween the authority of Congress to regulate an agency employed in
commerce between the States, when the agency extends through two
    720 United States v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R.R., 312 U.S. 592, 597 (1941); United

States v. Willow River Power Co., 324 U.S. 499 (1945).
    721 United States v. Rio Grande Irrigation Co., 174 U.S. 690 (1899).
    722 77 U.S. (10 Wall.) 557 (1871).
    723 77 U.S. at 565.
