tion and powers normally vested only in Article III courts; the ori-
gin and importance of the rights to be adjudicated; and the con-
cerns that drove Congress to depart from the requirements of Article
III.27 Bowsher, the Court said, was not contrary, because, “[u]nlike
Bowsher, this case raises no question of the aggrandizement of con-
gressional power at the expense of a coordinate branch.” 28 The test
was a balancing one—whether Congress had impermissibly under-
mined the role of another branch without appreciable expansion of
its own power.
     Although the Court has never directly indicated its standards
for choosing one analysis over the other, it has implied that the for-
malist approach was proper when the Constitution clearly commit-
ted a function or duty to a particular branch and the functional
approach was proper when the constitutional text was indetermi-
nate and a decision must be made on the basis of the likelihood of
impairment of the essential powers of a branch. Still, the overall
result has been to offer a strenuous protection of executive powers
and a concomitant relaxed view of incursions into the powers of the
other branches. It was thus a surprise when, in Morrison v. Olson,
the independent counsel case, the Court, again without stating why
it chose that analysis, used the functional standard to sustain the
creation of the independent counsel and that officer’s exercise of
prosecutorial authority 29
     The independent-counsel statute, the Court emphasized, was not
an attempt by Congress to increase its own power at the expense
of the executive nor did it constitute a judicial usurpation of execu-
tive power. Moreover, the Court stated, the law did not “impermis-
sibly undermine” the powers of the Executive Branch nor did it “dis-
rupt the proper balance between the coordinate branches [by]
prevent[ing] the Executive Branch from accomplishing its constitu-
tionally assigned functions.” 30 The Court acknowledged that the stat-
ute undeniably reduced executive control over what it had previ-
ously identified as a core executive function—the execution of the
laws through criminal prosecution—through its appointment provi-
    27  Schor, 478 U.S. at 851.
    28  478 U.S. at 856.
     29 487 U.S. 654 (1988). To be sure, the Appointments Clause (Article II, § 2) spe-

cifically provides that Congress may vest in the courts the power to appoint inferior
officers, 487 U.S. at 670–677),, making possible the contention that, unlike Chadha
and Bowsher, Morrison is a textual commitment case. But the Court’s separate evalu-
ation of the separation of powers issue does not appear to turn on that distinction.
Id. at 685–96. Nevertheless, the existence of this possible distinction should make
one wary about lightly reading Morrison as a rejection of formalism when executive
powers are litigated.
     30 487 U.S. at 695 (quoting, respectively, Schor, 478 U.S. at 856, and Nixon v.

Administrator of General Services, 433 U.S. at 443).
