down regulations designed to keep dealing in securities honest and
aboveboard and closed the channels of interstate commerce and the
mails to dealers refusing to register under the act. The latter re-
quired the companies governed by it to register with the Securities
and Exchange Commission and to inform it concerning their busi-
ness, organization, and financial structure, all on pain of being pro-
hibited use of the facilities of interstate commerce and the mails;
while, by § 11, the so-called “death sentence” clause, the same act
closed the channels of interstate communication after a certain date
to certain types of public utility companies whose operations, Con-
gress found, were calculated chiefly to exploit the investing and con-
suming public. All these provisions have been sustained,799 with the
Court relying principally on Gibbons v. Ogden.

Congressional Regulation of Production and Industrial
 Relations: Antidepression Legislation
    In the words of Chief Justice Hughes, spoken in a case decided
a few days after President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s first inaugura-
tion, the problem then confronting the new Administration was clearly
set forth. “When industry is grievously hurt, when producing con-
cerns fail, when unemployment mounts and communities depen-
dent upon profitable production are prostrated, the wells of com-
merce go dry.” 800
    National Industrial Recovery Act.—The initial effort of Con-
gress to deal with this situation was embodied in the National In-
dustrial Recovery Act of June 16, 1933.801 The opening section of
the Act asserted the existence of “a national emergency productive
of widespread unemployment and disorganization of industry which”
burdened “interstate and foreign commerce,” affected “the public wel-
fare,” and undermined “the standards of living of the American people.”
To affect the removal of these conditions the President was autho-
rized, upon the application of industrial or trade groups, to ap-
prove “codes of fair competition,” or to prescribe the same in cases
where such applications were not duly forthcoming. Among other
things such codes, of which eventually more than 700 were promul-
gated, were required to lay down rules of fair dealing with custom-
ers and to furnish labor certain guarantees respecting hours, wages
and collective bargaining. For the time being, business and indus-
try were to be cartelized on a national scale.

    799 Electric Bond Co. v. SEC, 303 U.S. 419 (1938); North American Co. v. SEC,

327 U.S. 686 (1946); American Power & Light Co. v. SEC, 329 U.S. 90 (1946).
    800 Appalachian Coals, Inc. v. United States, 288 U.S. 344, 372 (1933).
    801 48 Stat. 195.
