be a noteworthy case,912 or whether it was rather a “warning shot”
across the bow of Congress, urging more restraint in the exercise
of power or more care in the drafting of laws, was not immediately
clear. The Court’s decision five years later in United States v. Mor-
rison,913 however, suggests that stricter scrutiny of Congress’s com-
merce power exercises is the chosen path, at least for legislation
that falls outside the area of economic regulation.914 The Court will
no longer defer, via rational basis review, to every congressional find-
ing of substantial effects on interstate commerce, but instead will
examine the nature of the asserted nexus to commerce, and will
also consider whether a holding of constitutionality is consistent with
its view of the commerce power as being a limited power that can-
not be allowed to displace all exercise of state police powers.
     In Morrison the Court applied Lopez principles to invalidate a
provision of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) that created
a federal cause of action for victims of gender-motivated violence.
Gender-motivated crimes of violence “are not, in any sense of the
phrase, economic activity,” 915 the Court explained, and there was
allegedly no precedent for upholding commerce-power regulation of
intrastate activity that was not economic in nature. The provision,
like the invalidated provision of the Gun-Free School Zones Act, con-
tained no jurisdictional element tying the regulated violence to in-
terstate commerce. Unlike the Gun-Free School Zones Act, the VAWA
did contain “numerous” congressional findings about the serious ef-
fects of gender-motivated crimes,916 but the Court rejected reliance
on these findings. “The existence of congressional findings is not suf-
ficient, by itself, to sustain the constitutionality of Commerce Clause

     912 “Not every epochal case has come in epochal trappings.” 514 U.S. at 615 (Jus-

tice Souter dissenting) (wondering whether the case is only a misapplication of es-
tablished standards or is a veering in a new direction).
     913 529 U.S. 598 (2000). Once again, the Justices were split 5–4, with Chief Jus-

tice Rehnquist’s opinion of the Court being joined by Justices O’Connor, Scalia, Ken-
nedy, and Thomas, and with Justices Souter, Stevens, Ginsburg, and Breyer dissent-
ing.
     914 For an expansive interpretation in the area of economic regulation, decided

during the same Term as Lopez, see Allied-Bruce Terminix Cos. v. Dobson, 513 U.S.
265 (1995). Lopez did not “purport to announce a new rule governing Congress’s Com-
merce Clause power over concededly economic activity.” Citizens Bank v. Alafabco,
Inc., 539 U.S. 52, 58 (2003).
     915 529 U.S. at 613.
     916 Dissenting Justice Souter pointed to a “mountain of data” assembled by Con-

gress to show the effects of domestic violence on interstate commerce. 529 U.S. at
628–30. The Court has evidenced a similar willingness to look behind congressional
findings purporting to justify exercise of enforcement power under section 5 of the
Fourteenth Amendment. See discussion under “enforcement,” infra. In Morrison it-
self, the Court determined that congressional findings were insufficient to justify the
VAWA as an exercise of Fourteenth Amendment power. 529 U.S. at 619–20.
