mon defence and general welfare” 610 to sustain the right of the Fed-
eral Government to acquire land within a state for use as a na-
tional park.
    Finally, in United States v. Butler,611 the Court gave its unquali-
fied endorsement to Hamilton’s views on the taxing power. Justice
Roberts wrote for the Court: “Since the foundation of the Nation
sharp differences of opinion have persisted as to the true interpre-
tation of the phrase. Madison asserted it amounted to no more than
a reference to the other powers enumerated in the subsequent clauses
of the same section; that, as the United States is a government of
limited and enumerated powers, the grant of power to tax and spend
for the general national welfare must be confined to the enumer-
ated legislative fields committed to the Congress. In this view the
phrase is mere tautology, for taxation and appropriation are or may
be necessary incidents of the exercise of any of the enumerated leg-
islative powers. Hamilton, on the other hand, maintained the clause
confers a power separate and distinct from those later enumerated,
is not restricted in meaning by the grant of them, and Congress
consequently has a substantive power to tax and to appropriate, lim-
ited only by the requirement that it shall be exercised to provide
for the general welfare of the United States. Each contention has
had the support of those whose views are entitled to weight. This
court has noticed the question, but has never found it necessary to
decide which is the true construction. Mr. Justice Story, in his Com-
mentaries, espouses the Hamiltonian position. We shall not review
the writings of public men and commentators or discuss the legisla-
tive practice. Study of all these leads us to conclude that the read-
ing advocated by Mr. Justice Story is the correct one. While, there-
fore, the power to tax is not unlimited, its confines are set in the
clause which confers it, and not in those of § 8 which bestow and
define the legislative powers of the Congress. It results that the power
of Congress to authorize expenditure of public moneys for public
purposes is not limited by the direct grants of legislative power found
in the Constitution.” 612
    By and large, it is for Congress to determine what constitutes
the “general welfare.” The Court accords great deference to Con-
gress’s decision that a spending program advances the general wel-

    610 160 U.S. at 681.
    611 297 U.S. 1 (1936). See also Cleveland v. United States, 323 U.S. 329 (1945).
    612 United States v. Butler, 297 U.S. 1, 65–66 (1936). So settled had the issue

become that 1970s attacks on federal grants-in-aid omitted any challenge on the
broad level and relied on specific prohibitions, i.e., the religion clauses of the First
Amendment. Flast v. Cohen, 392 U.S. 83 (1968); Tilton v. Richardson, 403 U.S. 672
(1971).
