                            BICAMERALISM
     For the Framers, historical and contemporary examples of both
unicameral and bicameral legislatures abounded. Following the Revo-
lution, a number of state legislatures were created unicameral, and
the Continental Congress, limited in power as it was, consisted of
one house. On the other hand, some of the ancient republics, upon
whose example the Framers often relied, had two-house legisla-
tures. Or, of direct historical relevance, the Parliament of Great Brit-
ain had two houses based on two social orders, the hereditary aris-
tocracy represented in the House of Lords and the freeholders of
the land represented in the House of Commons.
     From the beginning of the Convention, a two-house Congress
was called for in the Virginia Plan. The Great Compromise, one of
the critical decisions leading to a successful completion of the Con-
vention, resolved the dispute about the national legislature by pro-
viding for a House of Representatives apportioned on population and
a Senate in which the states were equally represented. The first
function served, thus, was federalism. Coextensively important, how-
ever, was the separation-of-powers principle served. The legislative
power, the Framers both knew and feared, was predominant in a
society dependent upon the suffrage of the people, and it was impor-
tant to have a precaution against the triumph of transient majori-
ties. Hence, the Constitution’s requirement that before lawmaking
could be carried out bills must be deliberated in two Houses, their
Members beholden to different constituencies, was in pursuit of this
observation from experience.33
     Events since 1787, of course, have altered both the separation-
of-powers and the federalism bases of bicameralism, in particular
the adoption of the Seventeenth Amendment resulting in the popu-
lar election of Senators, so that the differences between the two Cham-
bers are today less pronounced.

   ENUMERATED, IMPLIED, RESULTING, AND INHERENT
                              POWERS
    Two important doctrines of constitutional law—that the Fed-
eral Government is one of enumerated powers and that legislative
powers may not be delegated—are derived in part from this sec-
tion. The classic statement of the former is by Chief Justice Mar-
shall in McCulloch v. Maryland: “This government is acknowl-
edged by all, to be one of enumerated powers. The principle, that it
    33 Id. at No. 51, 347–353 (Madison). The assurance of the safeguard is built into

the presentment clause. Article I, § 7, cl. 2; see also id. at cl. 3. The structure is not
often the subject of case law, but it was a foundational matter in INS v. Chadha,
462 U.S. 919, 944–951 (1983).
