the Court and the fact that the Court’s decision finally sustaining
the act was a five-to-four decision. The opinion of the Court, on the
other hand, prepared by Justice Harlan, marked an almost unquali-
fied triumph at the time for the view that Congress’s power to regu-
late commerce among the States included the power to prohibit it,
especially to supplement and support state legislation enacted un-
der the police power. Early in the opinion, extensive quotation is
made from Chief Justice Marshall’s opinion in Gibbons v. Ogden,870
with special stress upon the definition there given of the phrase “to
regulate.” Justice Johnson’s assertion on the same occasion is also
given: “The power of a sovereign State over commerce, . . . amounts
to nothing more than a power to limit and restrain it at pleasure.”
Further along is quoted with evident approval Justice Bradley’s state-
ment in Brown v. Houston,871 that “[t]he power to regulate com-
merce among the several States is granted to Congress in terms as
absolute as is the power to regulate commerce with foreign na-
tions.”
    Following the wake of the Lottery Case, Congress repeatedly
brought its prohibitory powers over interstate commerce and com-
munications to the support of certain local policies of the states in
the exercise of their reserved powers, thereby aiding them in the
repression of a variety of acts and deeds objectionable to public mo-
rality. The conception of the Federal System on which the Court
based its validation of this legislation was stated by it in 1913 in
sustaining the Mann “White Slave” Act in the following words: “Our
dual form of government has its perplexities, State and Nation hav-
ing different spheres of jurisdiction . . . but it must be kept in mind
that we are one people; and the powers reserved to the States and
those conferred on the Nation are adapted to be exercised, whether
independently or concurrently, to promote the general welfare, ma-
terial, and moral.” 872 At the same time, the Court made it plain
that in prohibiting commerce among the states, Congress was equally
free to support state legislative policy or to devise a policy of its
own. “Congress,” it said, “may exercise this authority in aid of the
policy of the State, if it sees fit to do so. It is equally clear that the
policy of Congress acting independently of the States may induce
legislation without reference to the particular policy or law of any
given State. Acting within the authority conferred by the Constitu-

   870 22 U.S. (9 Wheat.) 1, 227 (1824).
   871 114 U.S. 622, 630 (1885).
   872 Hoke v. United States, 227 U.S. 308, 322 (1913).
