                  POWER TO REGULATE COMMERCE

Purposes Served by the Grant
     The Commerce Clause serves a two-fold purpose: it is the di-
rect source of the most important powers that the Federal Govern-
ment exercises in peacetime, and, except for the due process and
equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, it is the most
important limitation imposed by the Constitution on the exercise
of state power. The latter, restrictive operation of the clause was
long the more important one from the point of view of the constitu-
tional lawyer. Of the approximately 1400 cases that reached the Su-
preme Court under the clause prior to 1900, the overwhelming pro-
portion stemmed from state legislation.656 The result was that,
generally, the guiding lines in construction of the clause were ini-
tially laid down in the context of curbing state power rather than
in that of its operation as a source of national power. The conse-
quence of this historical progression was that the word “commerce”
came to dominate the clause while the word “regulate” remained in
the background. The so-called “constitutional revolution” of the 1930s,
however, brought the latter word to its present prominence.

Definition of Terms
    Commerce.—The etymology of the word “commerce” 657 carries
the primary meaning of traffic, of transporting goods across state
lines for sale. This possibly narrow constitutional conception was
rejected by Chief Justice Marshall in Gibbons v. Ogden,658 which
remains one of the seminal cases dealing with the Constitution. The
case arose because of a monopoly granted by the New York legisla-
ture on the operation of steam-propelled vessels on its waters, a
monopoly challenged by Gibbons, who transported passengers from
New Jersey to New York pursuant to privileges granted by an act
of Congress.659 The New York monopoly was not in conflict with the
congressional regulation of commerce, argued the monopolists, be-
cause the vessels carried only passengers between the two states
and were thus not engaged in traffic, in “commerce” in the constitu-
tional sense.
    “The subject to be regulated is commerce,” the Chief Justice wrote.
“The counsel for the appellee would limit it to traffic, to buying and
    656   E. PRENTICE & J. EGAN, THE COMMERCE CLAUSE   OF THE   FEDERAL CONSTITUTION 14
(1898).
    657 OED: “com– together, with, + merx, merci- merchandise, ware.”
    658 22 U.S. (9 Wheat.) 1 (1824).
    659 Act of February 18, 1793, 1 Stat. 305, entitled “An Act for enrolling and li-

censing ships or vessels to be employed in the coasting trade and fisheries, and for
regulating the same.”
