Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment. Justice Roberts wrote
for the majority: “We feel bound to hold that a pension plan thus
imposed is in no proper sense a regulation of the activity of inter-
state transportation. It is an attempt for social ends to impose by
sheer fiat noncontractual incidents upon the relation of employer
and employee, not as a rule or regulation of commerce and trans-
portation between the States, but as a means of assuring a particu-
lar class of employees against old age dependency. This is neither a
necessary nor an appropriate rule or regulation affecting the due
fulfillment of the railroads’ duty to serve the public in interstate
transportation.” 812
    Chief Justice Hughes, speaking for the dissenters, contended,
on the contrary, that “the morale of the employees [had] an impor-
tant bearing upon the efficiency of the transportation service.” He
added: “The fundamental consideration which supports this type of
legislation is that industry should take care of its human wastage,
whether that is due to accident or age. That view cannot be dis-
missed as arbitrary or capricious. It is a reasoned conviction based
upon abundant experience. The expression of that conviction in law
is regulation. When expressed in the government of interstate car-
riers, with respect to their employees likewise engaged in inter-
state commerce, it is a regulation of that commerce. As such, so far
as the subject matter is concerned, the commerce clause should be
held applicable.” 813 Under subsequent legislation, an excise is lev-
ied on interstate carriers and their employees, while by separate
but parallel legislation a fund is created in the Treasury out of which
pensions are paid along the lines of the original plan. The constitu-
tionality of this scheme appears to be taken for granted in Rail-
road Retirement Board v. Duquesne Warehouse Co.814
    National Labor Relations Act.—The case in which the Court
reduced the distinction between “direct” and “indirect” effects to the
vanishing point and thereby placed Congress in the position to regu-
late productive industry and labor relations in these industries was
NLRB v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation.815 Here the statute

    812 295 U.S. at 374.
    813 295 U.S. at 379, 384.
    814 326 U.S. 446 (1946). Indeed, in a case decided in June 1948, Justice Rutledge,

speaking for a majority of the Court, listed the Alton case as one “foredoomed to
reversal,” though the formal reversal has never taken place. See Mandeville Island
Farms v. American Crystal Sugar Co., 334 U.S. 219, 230 (1948). Cf. Usery v. Turner
Elkhorn Mining Co., 428 U.S. 1, 19 (1976).
    815 301 U.S. 1 (1937). A major political event had intervened between this deci-

sion and those described in the preceding pages. President Roosevelt, angered at
the Court’s invalidation of much of his depression program, proposed a “reorganiza-
tion” of the Court by which he would have been enabled to name one new Justice
