    In INS v. Chadha the Court used the formalist approach to in-
validate a legislative veto device by which Congress could set aside
a statutorily authorized suspension by the Attorney General of the
deportation of an alien. Central to the decision were two concep-
tual premises. First, the action Congress had taken was found to
be legislative—because it had the purpose and effect of altering the
legal rights, duties, and relations of persons outside the Legislative
Branch—mandating that the Congress comply with the bicameral-
ism and presentment requirements of the Constitution.21 Second,
the Attorney General was performing an executive function in imple-
menting the delegation from Congress, so that the legislative veto
was an impermissible interference in the execution of the laws. The
Court noted that, rather than using a veto, Congress could act only
by legislating, thus changing the terms of its delegation.22 Then, in
Bowsher v. Synar, the Court held that Congress could not vest even
part of the execution of the laws in an officer, the Comptroller Gen-
eral, who was subject to removal by Congress, because to do so would
enable Congress to play a role in the execution of the laws. Again,
Congress could act only by passing other laws.23
    On that same day that Bowsher was decided through a formal-
ist analysis, however, the Court in CFTC v. Schor 24 used the less
strict, functional approach in upholding the power of a regulatory
agency to adjudicate a state common-law issue. Of even more con-
cern was that such power had previously been denied to a non-
Article III bankruptcy court in Northern Pipeline Constr. Co. v. Mara-
thon Pipe Line Co., a formalist plurality opinion with a limiting
concurrence.25 Sustaining the agency’s power, the Court in Schor
emphasized “the principle that ‘practical attention to substance rather
than doctrinaire reliance on formal categories should inform appli-
cation of Article III.’ ” 26 It further held that, in evaluating such a
separation of powers challenge, the Court had to consider the ex-
tent to which the “essential attributes of judicial power” were re-
served to Article III courts. Conversely, the Court had to evaluate
the extent to which the non-Article III entity exercised the jurisdic-
    21  462 U.S. at 952.
    22  462 U.S. at 952.
     23 478 U.S. at 726–727.
     24 478 U.S. 833 (1986)
     25 Although the agency in Schor was an independent regulatory commission and

the bankruptcy court in Northern Pipeline was either an Article I court or an ad-
junct to an Article III court, the characterization of the entity is irrelevant and, in
fact, the Court made nothing of the difference. The issue in each case was whether
the judicial power of the United States could be conferred on an entity that was not
an Article III court.
     26 478 U.S.at 848 (quoting Thomas v. Union Carbide Agric. Products Co., 473

U.S. 568, 587 (1985)).
