tional means and personal motives to resist encroachments of the
others.” Thus, “[a]mbition must be made to counteract ambition. The
interest of the man must be connected with the constitutional rights
of the place.” 8
    Institutional devices to achieve these principles pervade the Con-
stitution. Bicameralism reduces legislative predominance, while the
presidential veto gives to the President a means of defending his
priorities and preventing congressional overreaching. The Senate’s
role in appointments and treaties checks the President. The courts
are assured independence through good-behavior tenure and secu-
rity of compensation, and the judges through judicial review will
check the other two branches. The impeachment power gives to Con-
gress the authority to root out corruption and abuse of power in
the other two branches. And so on.

Judicial Enforcement
     The difficulty for the Court in policing the separation of powers
lies in its efforts to both maintain the theoretical separation of branches
while accommodating the practical need for some intermixture of
governmental functions.9 Further, since the power of the Court it-
self is subject to the dictates of the doctrine, the role of the Su-
preme Court has been problematic at best. In fact, throughout much
of our history, most notable political disputes over separation of power
arose between the elected “political branches” and were resolved with-
out judicial intervention. It is only in recent decades that cases in-
volving the doctrine have been regularly decided by the Court.
     For many years, judicial construction of the doctrine only arose
in relation to particular clauses of the Constitution. For instance,
the nondelegation doctrine—that Congress may not delegate its Ar-
ticle I legislative authority—was from the beginning suffused with
a separation-of-powers premise.10 However, the almost immediate
demise of judicial enforcement of the doctrine was a reflection of
the Court’s inability to give any meaningful content to its separa-
tion of powers concerns.11 On the other hand, the Court has periodi-

    8  Id. at No. 51, 349.
    9  “While the Constitution diffuses power the better to secure liberty, it also con-
templates that practice will integrate the dispersed powers into a workable govern-
ment. It enjoins upon its branches separateness but interdependence, autonomy but
reciprocity.” Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U.S. 579, 635 (1952) (Jus-
tice Jackson concurring).
     10 E.g., Field v. Clark, 143 U.S. 649, 692 (1892); Wayman v. Southard, 23 U.S.

(10 Wheat.) 1, 42 (1825).
     11 See Mistretta v. United States, 488 U.S. 361, 415–16 (1989) (Justice Scalia

dissenting).
