application of a state business-and-occupation tax on the gross re-
ceipts from a large wholesale volume of pipe and drainage products
in the state was sustained, even though the company maintained
no office, owned no property, and had no employees in the state, its
marketing activities being carried out by an in-state independent
contractor.1060 The Court also upheld a state’s application of a use
tax to aviation fuel stored temporarily in the state prior to loading
on aircraft for consumption in interstate flights.1061
     When “there is no dispute that the taxpayer has done some busi-
ness in the taxing State, the inquiry shifts from whether the State
may tax to what it may tax. To answer that question, [the Court
has] developed the unitary business principle. Under that prin-
ciple, a State need not isolate the intrastate income-producing ac-
tivities from the rest of the business but may tax an apportioned
sum of the corporation’s multistate business if the business is uni-
tary. The court must determine whether intrastate and extrastate
activities formed part of a single unitary business, or whether the
out-of-state values that the State seeks to tax derive[d] from unre-
lated business activity which constitutes a discrete business enter-
prise. . . . If the value the State wishe[s] to tax derive[s] from a
‘unitary business’ operated within and without the State, the State
[may] tax an apportioned share of the value of that business in-
stead of isolating the value attributable to the operation of the busi-
ness within the State. Conversely, if the value the State wished to
tax derived from a discrete business enterprise, then the State could
not tax even an apportioned share of that value.” 1062 But, even when
there is a unitary business, “[t]he Due Process and Commerce Clauses
of the Constitution do not allow a State to tax income arising out
of interstate activities—even on a proportional basis—unless there
is a ‘minimal connection’ or ‘nexus’ between the interstate activi-



     1060 Tyler Pipe Industries v. Dept. of Revenue, 483 U.S. 232, 249–51 (1987). The

Court agreed with the state court’s holding that “the crucial factor governing nexus
is whether the activities performed in this state on behalf of the taxpayer are signifi-
cantly associated with the taxpayer’s ability to establish and maintain a market in
this state for the sales.” Id. at 250.
     1061 United Air Lines v. Mahin, 410 U.S. 623 (1973).
     1062 Meadwestvaco Corp. v. Illinois Dept. of Revenue, 128 S. Ct. 1498, 1505–06

(2008) (citations and internal quotation marks omitted). The holding of this case
was that the concept of “operational function,” which the Court had introduced in
prior cases, was “not intended to modify the unitary business principle by adding a
new ground for apportionment.” Id. at 1507–08. In other words, the Court declined
to adopt a basis upon which a state could tax a non-unitary business.
