marketed, it supplies a need of the man who grew it which would
otherwise be reflected by purchases in the open market. Home-
grown wheat in this sense competes with wheat in commerce. The
stimulation of commerce is a use of the regulatory function quite
as definitely as prohibitions or restrictions thereon. This record leaves
us in no doubt that Congress may properly have considered that
wheat consumed on the farm grown, if wholly outside the scheme
of regulation, would have a substantial effect in defeating and ob-
structing its purpose to stimulate trade therein at increased prices.” 842
And, it elsewhere stated “that questions of the power of Congress
are not to be decided by reference to any formula which would give
controlling force to nomenclature such as ‘production’ and ‘indirect’
and foreclose consideration of the actual effects of the activity in
question upon interstate commerce. . . . The Court’s recognition of
the relevance of the economic effects in the application of the Com-
merce Clause . . . has made the mechanical application of legal for-
mulas no longer feasible.” 843
Acts of Congress Prohibiting Commerce
    Foreign Commerce: Jefferson’s Embargo.—“Jefferson’s Em-
bargo” of 1807–1808, which cut all trade with Europe, was at-
tacked on the ground that the power to regulate commerce was the
power to preserve it, not the power to destroy it. This argument
was rejected by Judge Davis of the United States District Court for
Massachusetts in the following words: “A national sovereignty is cre-
ated [by the Constitution]. Not an unlimited sovereignty, but a sov-
ereignty, as to the objects surrendered and specified, limited only
by the qualification and restrictions, expressed in the Constitution.
    842 317 U.S. at 128–29.
    843 317 U.S. at 120, 123–24. In United States v. Rock Royal Co-operative, Inc.,
307 U.S. 533 (1939), the Court sustained an order under the Agricultural Market-
ing Agreement Act of 1937, 50 Stat. 246, regulating the price of milk in certain in-
stances. Justice Reed wrote for the majority of the Court: “The challenge is to the
regulation ‘of the price to be paid upon the sale by a dairy farmer who delivers his
milk to some country plant.’ It is urged that the sale, a local transaction, is fully
completed before any interstate commerce begins and that the attempt to fix the
price or other elements of that incident violates the Tenth Amendment. But where
commodities are bought for use beyond state lines, the sale is a part of interstate
commerce. We have likewise held that where sales for interstate transportation were
commingled with intrastate transactions, the existence of the local activity did not
interfere with the federal power to regulate inspection of the whole. Activities con-
ducted within state lines do not by this fact alone escape the sweep of the Com-
merce Clause. Interstate commerce may be dependent upon them. Power to estab-
lish quotas for interstate marketing gives power to name quotas for that which is to
be left within the state of production. Where local and foreign milk alike are drawn
into a general plan for protecting the interstate commerce in the commodity from
the interferences, burdens and obstructions, arising from excessive surplus and the
social and sanitary evils of low values, the power of the Congress extends also to
the local sales.” Id. at 568–69.
