sions and its limitation of removal to a “good cause” standard. The
Court nonetheless noted the circumscribed nature of the reduction,
the discretion of the Attorney General to initiate appointment, the
limited jurisdiction of the counsel, and the power of the Attorney
General to ensure that the laws are faithfully executed by the coun-
sel. This balancing, the Court thought, left the President with suf-
ficient control to ensure that he is able to perform his constitution-
ally assigned functions.
     A notably more pragmatic, functional analysis suffused the opin-
ion of the Court when it upheld the constitutionality of the Sentenc-
ing Commission in Mistretta v. United States.31 Charged with pro-
mulgating guidelines binding on federal judges in sentencing convicted
offenders, the seven-member Commission, three members of which
had to be Article III judges, was made an independent entity in
the judicial branch. The President appointed all seven members, choos-
ing the judges from a list compiled by the Judicial Conference, and
he could remove from the Commission any member for cause. Ac-
cording to the Court, its separation-of-powers jurisprudence is al-
ways animated by the concerns of encroachment and aggrandize-
ment. “Accordingly, we have not hesitated to strike down provisions
of law that either accrete to a single Branch powers more appropri-
ately diffused among separate Branches or that undermine the au-
thority and independence of one or another coordinate Branch.” 32
Thus, to each of the discrete questions, the placement of the Com-
mission, the appointment of the members, especially the service of
federal judges, and the removal power, the Court carefully ana-
lyzed whether one branch had been given power it could not exer-
cise or had enlarged its powers impermissibly and whether any branch
would have its institutional integrity threatened by the structural
arrangement.
    Although it is possible, even likely, that Morrison and Mistretta
represent a decision by the Court to adopt the functional analysis
for all separation-of-powers cases, the history of adjudication since
1976 and the shift of approach between Myers and Humphrey’s Ex-
ecutor suggest caution. Recurrences of the formalist approach have
been noted. Additional decisions must be forthcoming before it can
be decided that the Court has finally settled on the functional ap-
proach.

     31 488 U.S. 361 (1989). Significantly, the Court acknowledged reservations with

respect to the placement of the Commission as an independent entity in the judicial
branch. Id. at 384, 397, 407–08. As in Morrison, Justice Scalia was the lone dis-
senter, arguing for a fairly rigorous application of separation-of-powers principles.
Id. at 413, 422–27.
     32 488 U.S. at 382.
