tion of the separation-of-powers doctrine by the legislatures of the
states were commonplace prior to the convening of the Constitu-
tional Convention.3 Ultimately, it was both theory and experience
which guided the Framers in the summer of 1787.4
    The implementation of the doctrine of separation of powers in
the Constitution was premised on several generally held principles:
the separation of government into three branches; the concept that
each branch performs unique and identifiable functions that are ap-
propriate to each; and the limitation of the personnel of each branch
to that branch, so that no one person or group should be able to
serve in more than one branch simultaneously. Although the Con-
stitution to a great extent effectuated these principles, contempora-
neous critics objected to what they regarded as the curious inter-
mixture of functions, including, for example, the veto power of the
President over legislation and the role of the Senate in both the
appointment of executive officers and judges and in the treaty-
making process. In a powerful series of essays, James Madison ad-
dressed objections to these checks and balances.5
    To disprove these critics, Madison relied on the writings of “the
celebrated” Montesquieu, the “oracle who is always consulted” in
these matters. Although “this essential precaution in favor of lib-
erty,” that is, the separation of the three great functions of govern-
ment, had been achieved by the drafting of the Constitution, Madi-
son argued that the doctrine did not demand rigid separation.
Montesquieu and other theorists “did not mean that these depart-
ments ought to have no partial agency in, or control over, the acts
of each other,” but rather liberty was most endangered “where the
whole power of one department is exercised by the same hands which
possess the whole power of another department.” 6 In practice, the
doctrine did not demand absolute separation, and neither closely
drawn demarcations of institutional boundaries nor appeals to the
electorate were appropriate to achieve its proper functioning.7 In-
stead, security against concentration of powers “consists in giving
to those who administer each department the necessary constitu-
     3 “In republican government the legislative authority, necessarily, predomi-

nates.” THE FEDERALIST, No. 51, 350 (Madison) (J. Cooke ed. 1961). See also id. at No.
48, 332–334. This theme continues today to influence the Court’s evaluation of con-
gressional initiatives. E.g., Metropolitan Washington Airports Auth. v. Citizens for
the Abatement of Aircraft Noise, 501 U.S. 252, 273–74, 277 (1991). But compare id.
at 286 n. 3 (Justice White dissenting).
     4 The intellectual history through the state period and the Convention proceed-

ings is detailed in G. WOOD, THE CREATION OF THE AMERICAN REPUBLIC, 1776–1787 (1969)
(see index entries under “separation of powers”).
     5 THE FEDERALIST Nos. 47–51, 323–353 (Madison) (J. Cooke ed. 1961).
     6 Id. at No. 47, 325–326 (emphasis in original).
     7 Id. at Nos. 47–49, 325–343.
