has long since ceased to have force. . . . The conclusion is inescap-
able that Hammer v. Dagenhart, was a departure from the prin-
ciples which have prevailed in the interpretation of the Commerce
Clause both before and since the decision and that such vitality, as
a precedent, as it then had has long since been exhausted. It should
be and now is overruled.” 880

The Commerce Clause as a Source of National Police
  Power
    The Court has several times expressly noted that Congress’s ex-
ercise of power under the Commerce Clause is akin to the police
power exercised by the states.881 It should follow, therefore, that Con-
gress may achieve results unrelated to purely commercial aspects
of commerce, and this result in fact has often been accomplished.
Paralleling and contributing to this movement is the virtual disap-
pearance of the distinction between interstate and intrastate com-
merce.
     Is There an Intrastate Barrier to Congress’s Commerce
Power?.—Not only has there been legislative advancement and ju-
dicial acquiescence in Commerce Clause jurisprudence, but the meld-
ing of the Nation into one economic union has been more than a
little responsible for the reach of Congress’s power. “The volume of
interstate commerce and the range of commonly accepted objects of
government regulation have . . . expanded considerably in the last
200 years, and the regulatory authority of Congress has expanded
along with them. As interstate commerce has become ubiquitous,
activities once considered purely local have come to have effects on
the national economy, and have accordingly come within the scope
of Congress’s commerce power.” 882
     Congress’s commerce power has been characterized as having
three, or sometimes four, interrelated principles of decision, some
old, some of recent vintage. The Court in 1995 described “three broad
categories of activity that Congress may regulate under its com-
merce power. First, Congress may regulate the use of the channels
of interstate commerce. Second, Congress is empowered to regulate
and protect the instrumentalities of interstate commerce, or per-
sons or things in interstate commerce, even though the threat may
come only from intrastate activities. Finally, Congress’s commerce
authority includes the power to regulate those activities having a
    880 312 U.S. at 116–17.
    881 E.g., Brooks v. United States, 267 U.S. 432, 436–437 (1925); United States v.
Darby, 312 U.S. 100, 114 (1941). See Cushman, The National Police Power Under
the Commerce Clause, 3 SELECTED ESSAYS ON CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 62 (1938).
    882 New York v. United States, 505 U.S. 144, 158 (1992).
