of state instrumentalities to its proper function. The one, depen-
dent upon the nature of the function being performed by the state
or in its behalf, excludes from the immunity activities thought not
to be essential to the preservation of state governments even though
the tax be collected from the state treasury. . . . The other prin-
ciple, exemplified by those cases where the tax laid upon individu-
als affects the state only as the burden is passed on to it by the
taxpayer, forbids recognition of the immunity when the burden on
the state is so speculative and uncertain that if allowed it would
restrict the federal taxing power without affording any correspond-
ing tangible protection to the state government; even though the
function be thought important enough to demand immunity from a
tax upon the state itself, it is not necessarily protected from a tax
which well may be substantially or entirely absorbed by private per-
sons.” 556
     The second attempt to formulate a general doctrine was made
in New York v. United States,557 where, on review of a judgment
affirming the right of the United States to tax the sale of mineral
waters taken from property owned and operated by the State of New
York, the Court reconsidered the right of Congress to tax business
enterprises carried on by the states. Justice Frankfurter, speaking
for himself and Justice Rutledge, made the question of discrimina-
tion vel non against state activities the test of the validity of such
a tax. They found “no restriction upon Congress to include the States
in levying a tax exacted equally from private persons upon the same
subject matter.” 558 In a concurring opinion in which Justices Reed,
Murphy, and Burton joined, Chief Justice Stone rejected the crite-
rion of discrimination. He repeated what he had said in an earlier
case to the effect that “the limitation upon the taxing power of each,
so far as it affects the other, must receive a practical construction
which permits both to function with the minimum of interference
each with the other; and that limitation cannot be so varied or ex-
tended as seriously to impair either the taxing power of the govern-
ment imposing the tax . . . or the appropriate exercise of the func-
tions of the government affected by it.” 559 Justices Douglas and Black
dissented in an opinion written by the former on the ground that
the decision disregarded the Tenth Amendment, placed “the sover-
eign States on the same plane as private citizens,” and made them
“pay the Federal Government for the privilege of exercising powers

   556 304   U.S.   at 419–20.
   557 326   U.S.   572 (1946).
   558 326   U.S.   at 584.
   559 326   U.S.   at 589–90.
