whose wages are less than the prescribed maximum but also the
employment of workmen in the production of goods for such com-
merce at other than the prescribed wages and hours. Interstate com-
merce was defined by the act to mean “trade, commerce, transpor-
tation, transmission, or communication among the several States
or from any State to any place outside thereof.”
     It was further provided that “for the purposes of this act an
employee shall be deemed to have been engaged in the production
of goods [that is, for interstate commerce] if such employee was em-
ployed . . . in any process or occupation directly essential to the
production thereof in any State.” 826 Sustaining an indictment un-
der the act, a unanimous Court, speaking through Chief Justice Stone,
said: “The motive and purpose of the present regulation are plainly
to make effective the congressional conception of public policy that
interstate commerce should not be made the instrument of compe-
tition in the distribution of goods produced under substandard la-
bor conditions, which competition is injurious to the commerce and
to the States from and to which the commerce flows.” 827 In support
of the decision, the Court invoked Chief Justice Marshall’s reading
of the Necessary and Proper Clause in McCulloch v. Maryland and
his reading of the Commerce Clause in Gibbons v. Ogden.828 Objec-
tions purporting to be based on the Tenth Amendment were met
from the same point of view: “Our conclusion is unaffected by the
Tenth Amendment which provides: ‘The powers not delegated to the
United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States,
are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.’ The amend-
ment states but a truism that all is retained which has not been
surrendered. There is nothing in the history of its adoption to sug-
gest that it was more than declaratory of the relationship between
the national and State governments as it had been established by
the Constitution before the amendment or that its purpose was other
than to allay fears that the new National Government might seek

    826 52 Stat. 1060, as amended, 63 Stat. 910 (1949). The 1949 amendment substi-

tuted the phrase “in any process or occupation directly essential to the production
thereof in any State” for the original phrase “in any process or occupation necessary
to the production thereof in any State.” In Mitchell v. H.B. Zachry Co., 362 U.S.
310, 317 (1960), the Court noted that the change “manifests the view of Congress
that on occasion courts . . . had found activities to be covered, which . . . [Congress
now] deemed too remote from commerce or too incidental to it.” The 1961 amend-
ments to the Act, 75 Stat. 65, departed from previous practices of extending cover-
age to employees individually connected to interstate commerce to cover all employ-
ees of any “enterprise” engaged in commerce or production of commerce; thus, there
was an expansion of employees covered but not, of course, of employers, 29 U.S.C.
§§ 201 et seq. See 29 U.S.C. §§ 203(r), 203(s), 206(a), 207(a).
    827 United States v. Darby, 312 U.S. 100, 115 (1941).
    828 312 U.S. at 113, 114, 118.
