a whole” came within the act, and that the local activities alleged
were simply part and parcel of this general scheme.783
     Referring to the purchase of livestock at the stockyards, the Court,
speaking by Justice Holmes, said: “Commerce among the States is
not a technical legal conception, but a practical one, drawn from
the course of business. When cattle are sent for sale from a place
in one State, with the expectation that they will end their transit,
after purchase, in another, and when in effect they do so, with only
the interruption necessary to find a purchaser at the stockyards,
and when this is a typical, constantly recurring course, the current
thus existing is a current of commerce among the States, and the
purchase of the cattle is a part and incident of such commerce.” 784
Likewise the sales alleged of fresh meat at the slaughtering places
fell within the general design. Even if they imported a technical
passing of title at the slaughtering places, they also imported that
the sales were to persons in other states, and that shipments to
such states were part of the transaction.785 Thus, sales of the type
that in the Sugar Trust case were thrust to one side as immaterial
from the point of view of the law, because they enabled the manu-
facturer “to fulfill its function,” were here treated as merged in an
interstate commerce stream.
     Thus, the concept of commerce as trade, that is, as traffic, again
entered the constitutional law picture, with the result that condi-
tions directly affecting interstate trade could not be dismissed on
the ground that they affected interstate commerce, in the sense of
interstate transportation, only “indirectly.” Lastly, the Court added
these significant words: “But we do not mean to imply that the rule
which marks the point at which state taxation or regulation be-
comes permissible necessarily is beyond the scope of interference
by Congress in cases where such interference is deemed necessary
for the protection of commerce among the States.” 786 That is to say,
the line that confines state power from one side does not always
confine national power from the other. Even though the line accu-
rately divides the subject matter of the complementary spheres, na-
tional power is always entitled to take on the additional extension
that is requisite to guarantee its effective exercise and is further-
more supreme.
     The Danbury Hatters Case.—In this respect, the Swift case
only states what the Shreveport case was later to declare more ex-
plicitly, and the same may be said of an ensuing series of cases in
   783 Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U.S. 375, 396 (1905).
   784 196 U.S. at 398–99.
   785 196 U.S. at 399–401.
   786 196 U.S. at 400.
