lesser measure. To be sure, in cases of flat conflict between an act
or acts of Congress that regulate such commerce and a state legis-
lative act or acts, from whatever state power ensuing, the act of
Congress is today recognized, and was recognized by Marshall, as
enjoying an unquestionable supremacy.957 But suppose, first, that
Congress has passed no act, or second, that its legislation does not
clearly cover the ground traversed by previously enacted state leg-
islation. What rules then apply? Since Gibbons v. Ogden, both of
these situations have confronted the Court, especially as regards
interstate commerce, hundreds of times, and in meeting them the
Court has, first, determined that it has power to decide when state
power is validly exercised, and, second, it has coined or given cur-
rency to numerous formulas, some of which still guide, even when
they do not govern, its judgment.958
    Thus, it has been judicially established that the Commerce Clause
is not only a “positive” grant of power to Congress, but is also a
“negative” constraint upon the states. This aspect of the Commerce
Clause, sometimes called the “dormant” commerce clause, means that
the courts may measure state legislation against Commerce Clause
values even in the absence of congressional regulation, i.e., when
Congress’s exercise of its power is dormant.
    Webster, in Gibbons, argued that a state grant of a monopoly
to operate steamships between New York and New Jersey not only
contravened federal navigation laws but violated the Commerce Clause
as well, because that clause conferred an exclusive power upon Con-
gress to make the rules for national commerce, although he con-
ceded that the grant to regulate interstate commerce was so broad
as to reach much that the states had formerly had jurisdiction over,
the courts must be reasonable in interpretation.959 But, because he
thought the state law was in conflict with the federal legislation,
Chief Justice Marshall was not compelled to pass on Webster’s ar-
guments, although in dicta he indicated his considerable sympathy

    957  22 U.S. at 210–11.
    958  The writings detailing the history are voluminous. See, e.g., F. FRANKFURTER,
THE COMMERCE CLAUSE UNDER MARSHALL, TANEY, AND WHITE (1937); B. GAVIT, THE COM-
MERCE CLAUSE OF THE UNITED STATES CONSTITUTION (1932) (usefully containing appendi-
ces cataloguing every Commerce Clause decision of the Supreme Court to that time);
Sholleys, The Negative Implications of the Commerce Clause, 3 U. CHI. L. REV. 556
(1936). Among the recent writings, see Sedler, The Negative Commerce Clause as a
Restriction on State Regulation and Taxation: An Analysis in Terms of Constitu-
tional Structure, 31 WAYNE L. REV. 885 (1985) (a disputed conceptualization arguing
the Court followed a consistent line over the years), and articles cited, id. at 887
n.4.
     959 22 U.S. (9 Wheat.) at 13–14, 16.
