development of situations that might entangle the United States in
embarrassing or hostile relationships with a foreign country. Not-
ing too the fictional merging of identity of husband and wife, the
Court thought it well within congressional power to attach certain
consequences to these actions, despite the woman’s contrary intent
and understanding at the time she entered the relationship.1346
    Beginning in 1958, the Court had a running encounter with the
provisions of the 1952 Immigration and Nationality Act, which pre-
scribed expatriation for a lengthy series of actions.1347 In 1958, a
five-to-four decision sustained the power to divest a dual national
of his United States citizenship because he had voted in an elec-
tion in the other country of which he was a citizen.1348 But at the
same time, another five-to-four decision, in which a majority ratio-
nale was lacking, struck down punitive expatriation visited on per-
sons convicted by court-martial of desertion from the armed forces
in wartime.1349 In the next case, the Court struck down another pu-
nitive expatriation visited on persons who, in time of war or emer-
    1346  Mackenzie v. Hare, 239 U.S. 299 (1915).
    1347  See generally 8 U.S.C. §§ 1481–1489. Among the acts for which loss of citi-
zenship is prescribed are (1) obtaining naturalization in a foreign state, (2) taking
an oath of allegiance to a foreign state, (3) serving in the armed forces of a foreign
state without authorization and with consequent acquisition of foreign nationality,
(4) assuming public office under the government of a foreign state for which only
nationals of that state are eligible, (5) voting in an election in a foreign state, (6)
formally renouncing citizenship before a United States foreign service officer abroad,
(7) formally renewing citizenship within the United States in time of war, subject to
approval of the Attorney General, (8) being convicted and discharged from the armed
services for desertion in wartime, (9) being convicted of treason or of an attempt to
overthrow forcibly the Government of the United States, (10) fleeing or remaining
outside the United States in wartime or a proclaimed emergency in order to evade
military service, and (11) residing abroad if a naturalized citizen, subject to certain
exceptions, for three years in the country of his birth or in which he was formerly a
national or for five years in any other foreign state. Several of these sections have
been declared unconstitutional, as explained in the text.
     1348 Perez v. Brownell, 356 U.S. 44 (1958). For the Court, Justice Frankfurter

sustained expatriation as a necessary exercise of the congressional power to regu-
late the foreign relations of the United States to prevent the embarrassment and
potential for trouble inherent in our nationals voting in foreign elections. Justice
Whittaker dissented because he saw no problem of embarrassment or potential trouble
if the foreign state permitted aliens or dual nationals to vote. Chief Justice Warren
and Justices Black and Douglas denied that expatriation is within Congress’s power
to prescribe for an act, like voting, which is not necessarily a sign of intention to
relinquish citizenship.
     1349 Trop v. Dulles, 356 U.S. 86 (1958). Chief Justice Warren for himself and

three Justices held that expatriation for desertion was a cruel and unusual punish-
ment proscribed by the Eighth Amendment. Justice Brennan concurred on the ground
of a lack of the requisite relationship between the statute and Congress’s war pow-
ers. For the four dissenters, Justice Frankfurter argued that Congress had power to
impose loss of citizenship for certain activity and that there was a rational nexus
between refusal to perform a duty of citizenship and deprivation of citizenship. Jus-
tice Frankfurter denied that the penalty was cruel and unusual punishment and
denied that it was punishment at all “in any valid constitutional sense.” Id. at 124.
