to authorize indirect purchasers to recover for all overcharges passed
on to them by direct purchasers was held to implicate no preemp-
tion concerns, because the federal antitrust laws had been inter-
preted to not permit indirect purchasers to recover under federal
law; the state law may have been inconsistent with federal law but
in no way did it frustrate federal objectives and policies.1218 The
effect of federal policy was not strong enough to warrant a holding
of preemption when a state authorized condemnation of abandoned
railroad property after conclusion of an ICC proceeding permitting
abandonment, although the railroad’s opportunity costs in the prop-
erty had been considered in the decision on abandonment.1219
    Federal Versus State Labor Laws.—One group of cases, which
has caused the Court much difficulty over the years, concerns the
effect of federal labor laws on state power to govern labor-
management relations. Although the Court some time ago reached
a settled rule, changes in membership on the Court re-opened the
issue and modified the rules.
    With the enactment of the National Labor Relations Act and
subsequent amendments, Congress declared a national policy in labor-
management relations and established the NLRB to carry out that
policy.1220 It became the Supreme Court’s responsibility to deter-
mine what role state law on labor-management relations was to play.
At first, the Court applied a test of determination whether the state
regulation was in direct conflict with the national regulatory scheme.
Thus, in one early case, the Court held that an order by a state
board which commanded a union to desist from mass picketing of a
factory and from assorted personal threats was not in conflict with
the national law that had not been invoked and that did not touch
    1218  California v. ARC America Corp., 490 U.S. 93 (1989).
    1219  Hayfield Northern Ry. v. Chicago & N.W. Transp. Co., 467 U.S. 622 (1984).
See also CTS Corp. v. Dynamics Corp. of America, 481 U.S. 69 (1987) (federal law’s
broad purpose of protecting shareholders as a group is furthered by state anti-
takeover law); Rose v. Rose, 481 U.S. 619 (1987) (provision governing veterans’ dis-
ability benefits protects veterans’ families as well as veterans, hence state child-
support order resulting in payment out of benefits is not preempted).
     1220 Throughout the ups and downs of federal labor-law preemption, it remains

the rule that the Board remains preeminent and almost exclusive. See, e.g., Wiscon-
sin Dep’t of Industry v. Gould, Inc., 475 U.S. 282 (1986) (states may not supplement
Board enforcement by debarring from state contracts persons or firms that have vio-
lated the NLRA); Golden Gate Transit Corp. v. City of Los Angeles, 475 U.S. 608
(1986) (city may not condition taxicab franchise on settlement of strike by set date,
because this intrudes into collective-bargaining process protected by NLRA). On the
other hand, the NLRA’s protection of associational rights is not so strong as to out-
weigh the Social Security Act’s policy permitting states to determine whether to award
unemployment benefits to persons voluntarily unemployed as the result of a labor
dispute. New York Tel. Co. v. New York Labor Dep’t, 440 U.S. 519 (1979); Ohio Bu-
reau of Employment Services v. Hodory, 431 U.S. 471 (1977); Baker v. General Mo-
tors Corp., 478 U.S. 621 (1986).
