contoured ones. At least 45 states authorized straight mudguards.
The Court sifted the evidence and found it conflicting on the com-
parative safety advantages of contoured and straight mudguards.
But, admitting that if that were all that was involved the Court
would have to sustain the costs and burdens of outfitting with the
required mudguards, the Court invalidated the Illinois law, be-
cause of the massive burden on interstate commerce occasioned by
the necessity of truckers to shift cargoes to differently designed ve-
hicles at the state’s borders.
    Arguably, the Court in more recent years has continued to stiffen
the scrutiny with which it reviews state regulation of interstate car-
riers purportedly for safety reasons.1119 Difficulty attends any evalu-
ation of the possible developing approach, because the Court has
spoken with several voices. A close reading, however, indicates that,
although the Court is most reluctant to invalidate regulations that
touch upon safety and that if safety justifications are not illusory it
will not second-guess legislative judgments, the Court nonetheless
will not accept, without more, state assertions of safety motiva-
tions. “Regulations designed for that salutary purpose nevertheless
may further the purpose so marginally, and interfere with com-
merce so substantially, as to be invalid under the Commerce Clause.”
Rather, the asserted safety purpose must be weighed against the
degree of interference with interstate commerce. “This ‘weighing’ . . .
requires . . . a sensitive consideration of the weight and nature of
the state regulatory concern in light of the extent of the burden
imposed on the course of interstate commerce.” 1120
     Balancing has been used in other than transportation-industry
cases. Indeed, the modern restatement of the standard was in such
a case.1121 There, the state required cantaloupes grown in the state
to be packed there, rather than in an adjacent state, so that in-
state packers’ names would be associated with a superior product.
Promotion of a local industry was legitimate, the Court, said, but it
did not justify the substantial expense the company would have to
incur to comply. State efforts to protect local markets, concerns, or
consumers against outside companies have largely been unsuccess-
ful. Thus, a state law that prohibited ownership of local investment-
advisory businesses by out-of-state banks, bank holding companies,

    1119 Raymond Motor Transp., Inc. v. Rice, 434 U.S. 429 (1978); Kassel v. Consoli-

dated Freightways Corp., 450 U.S. 662 (1981).
    1120 Kassel v. Consolidated Freightways Corp., 450 U.S. 662, 670–71 (1981), (quot-

ing Raymond Motor Transp. v. Rice, 434 U.S. 429, 441, 443 (1978)). Both cases in-
validated state prohibitions of the use of 65-foot single-trailer trucks on state high-
ways.
    1121 Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc., 397 U.S. 137 (1970).
