jected challenges does suggest, however, that the doctrine applies
only to standardless delegations of the most sweeping nature.

The Nature and Scope of Permissible Delegations
     The early Court suggested alternative theories to justify sustain-
ing delegations. The first theory is that Congress may legislate con-
tingently, leaving to others the task of ascertaining the facts that
bring its declared policy into operation.81 Chief Justice Marshall al-
luded to a second theory in Wayman v. Southard.82 There, he dis-
tinguished between “important” subjects, “which must be entirely
regulated by the legislature itself,” and subjects “of less interest, in
which a general provision may be made, and power given to those
who are to act under such general provisions, to fill up the details.”
While this distinction may now be lost, the theory of the power “to
fill up the details” remains current.
     Two distinct constitutional concerns have contributed to the de-
velopment of the nondelegation doctrine: separation of powers and
due process. In J. W. Hampton, Jr. & Co. v. United States,83 Chief
Justice Taft explained the importance of separation of powers to
nondelegation. “The Federal Constitution . . . divide[s] the govern-
mental power into three branches. . . . [I]n carrying out that con-
stitutional division into three branches it is a breach of the Na-
tional fundamental law if Congress gives up its legislative power
and transfers it to the President, or to the Judicial branch, or if by
law it attempts to invest itself or its members with either execu-
tive power or judicial power. This is not to say that the three branches
are not co-ordinate parts of one government and that each in the
field of its duties may not invoke the action of the two other branches
in so far as the action invoked shall not be an assumption of the
constitutional field of action of another branch. In determining what
it may do in seeking assistance from another branch, the extent
and character of that assistance must be fixed according to com-
mon sense and the inherent necessities of the governmental co-
ordination.” 84
     A rigid application of separation of powers, however, would pre-
vent the lawmaking branch from effectively utilizing the resources
and expertise of the other branches. Thus, for instance, the doc-
    81  The Brig Aurora, 11 U.S. (7 Cr.) 382 (1813).
    82  23 U.S. (10 Wheat.) 1, 41 (1825).
     83 276 U.S. 394 (1928).
     84 276 U.S. at 406. Chief Justice Taft traced the separation of powers doctrine

to the maxim, Delegata potestas non potest delegari (a delegated power may not be
further delegated), 276 U.S. at 405, but the maxim does not help differentiate be-
tween permissible and impermissible delegations, and Court has not repeated this
reference in later delegation cases.
