gress had “exercised its authority to define and punish offenses against
the law of nations by sanctioning, within constitutional limitations,
the jurisdiction of military commissions to try persons for offenses
which, according to the rules and precepts of the law of nations,
and more particularly the law of war, are cognizable by such tribu-
nals.” 1567 Where, conversely, Congress defines with particularity a
crime which is “an offense against the law of nations,” the law is
valid, even if it contains no recital disclosing that it was enacted
pursuant to this clause. Thus, the duty which the law of nations
casts upon every government to prevent a wrong being done within
its own dominion to another nation with which it is at peace, or to
the people thereof, was found to furnish a sufficient justification for
the punishment of the counterfeiting within the United States, of
notes, bonds, and other securities of foreign governments.1568

Extraterritorial Reach of the Power
    Since this clause contains the only specific grant of power to be
found in the Constitution for the punishment of offenses outside the
territorial limits of the United States, a lower federal court held in
1932 1569 that the general grant of admiralty and maritime jurisdic-
tion by Article III, § 2, could not be construed as extending either
the legislative or judicial power of the United States to cover of-
fenses committed on vessels outside the United States but not on
the high seas. Reversing that decision, the Supreme Court held that
this provision “cannot be deemed to be a limitation on the powers,
either legislative or judicial, conferred on the National Government
by Article III, § 2. The two clauses are the result of separate steps
independently taken in the Convention, by which the jurisdiction
in admiralty, previously divided between the Confederation and the
states, was transferred to the National Government. It would be a
surprising result, and one plainly not anticipated by the framers or
justified by principles which ought to govern the interpretation of a
constitution devoted to the redistribution of governmental powers,
if part of them were lost in the process of transfer. To construe the
one clause as limiting rather than supplementing the other would
be to ignore their history, and without effecting any discernible pur-
pose of their enactment, to deny to both the states and the Na-
tional Government powers which were common attributes of sover-
eignty before the adoption of the Constitution. The result would be
to deny to both the power to define and punish crimes of less grav-
ity than felonies committed on vessels of the United States while
   1567 317 U.S. at 28.
   1568 United States v. Arjona, 120 U.S. 479, 487, 488 (1887).
   1569 United States v. Flores, 3 F. Supp. 134 (E.D. Pa. 1932).
