the neutral commerce of the United States. To the objection that
this was an invalid delegation of legislative power, the Court an-
swered briefly that “we can see no sufficient reason, why the legis-
lature should not exercise its discretion in reviving the act of March
1st, 1809, either expressly or conditionally, as their judgment should
direct.” 100
     The theory was used again in Field v. Clark,101 where the Tar-
iff Act of 1890 was assailed as unconstitutional because it directed
the President to suspend the free importation of enumerated com-
modities “for such time as he shall deem just” if he found that an-
other country imposed duties or other exactions upon agricultural
or other products of the United States that he deemed “reciprocally
unequal and unjust.” In sustaining this statute, the Court relied
heavily upon two factors: (1) legislative precedents, which demon-
strated that “in the judgment of the legislative branch of the gov-
ernment, it is often desirable, if not essential, . . . to invest the Presi-
dent with large discretion in matters arising out of the execution of
statutes relating to trade and commerce with other nations,” 102 and
(2) that the act did “not, in any real sense, invest the President
with the power of legislation. . . . Congress itself prescribed, in ad-
vance, the duties to be levied, . . . while the suspension lasted. Noth-
ing involving the expediency or the just operation of such legisla-
tion was left to the determination of the President. . . . He had no
discretion in the premises except in respect to the duration of the
suspension so ordered.” 103 By similar reasoning, the Court sus-
tained the flexible provisions of the Tariff Act of 1922 whereby du-
ties were increased or decreased to reflect differences in cost of pro-
duction at home and abroad, as such differences were ascertained
and proclaimed by the President.104
     Standards.—Implicit in the concept of filling in the details is
the idea that there is some intelligible guiding principle or frame-
work to apply. Indeed, the requirement that Congress set forth “in-
telligible principles” or “standards” to guide as well as limit the agency
or official in the performance of its assigned task has been critical
to the Court’s acceptance of legislative delegations. In theory, the
requirement of standards serves two purposes: “it insures that the
fundamental policy decisions in our society will be made not by an
appointed official but by the body immediately responsible to the
people . . . , [and] it prevents judicial review from becoming merely
   100 11 U.S. (7 Cr.) at 388.
   101 143 U.S. 649 (1892).
   102 143 U.S. at 691.
   103 143 U.S. at 692, 693.
   104 J. W. Hampton, Jr. & Co. v. United States, 276 U.S. 394 (1928).
