interference with the federal scheme, must be premised on tortu-
ous conduct either unrelated to employment discrimination or a func-
tion of the particularly abusive manner in which the discrimina-
tion is accomplished or threatened rather than a function of the actual
or threatened discrimination itself.1243
    A significant retrenchment of Garmon occurred in Sears, Roe-
buck & Co. v. Carpenters,1244 in the context of state court assertion
of jurisdiction over trespassory picketing. Objecting to the compa-
ny’s use of nonunion work in one of its departments, the union pick-
eted the store, using the company’s property, the lot area surround-
ing the store, instead of the public sidewalks, to walk on. After the
union refused to move its pickets to the sidewalk, the company sought
and obtained a state court order enjoining the picketing on com-
pany property. Depending upon the union motivation for the picket-
ing, it was either arguably prohibited or arguably protected by fed-
eral law, the trespassory nature of the picketing being one factor
the NLRB would have looked to in determining at least the pro-
tected nature of the conduct. The Court held, however, that under
the circumstances, neither the arguably prohibited nor the argu-
ably protected rationale of Garmon was sufficient to deprive the state
court of jurisdiction.
     First, as to conduct arguably prohibited by NLRA, the Court
seemingly expanded the Garmon exception recognizing state court
jurisdiction for conduct that touches interests “deeply rooted in lo-
cal feeling” 1245 in holding that where there exists “a significant state
interest in protecting the citizens from the challenged conduct” and
there exists “little risk of interference with the regulatory jurisdic-
tion” of the NLRB, state law is not preempted. Here, there was ob-
viously a significant state interest in protecting the company from
trespass; the second, “critical inquiry” was whether the controversy
presented to the state court was identical to or different from that
which could have been presented to the Board. The Court con-
cluded that the controversy was different. The Board would have
been presented with determining the motivation of the picketing and
the location of the picketing would have been irrelevant; the moti-
vation was irrelevant to the state court and the situs of the picket-
    1243 Farmer v. Carpenters, 430 U.S. 290 (1977). Following this case, the Court

held that a state court action for misrepresentation and breach of contract, brought
by replacement workers promised permanent employment when hired during a strike,
was not preempted. The action for breach of contract by replacement workers hav-
ing no remedies under the NLRA was found to be deeply rooted in local law and of
only peripheral concern under the Act. Belknap, Inc. v. Hale, 463 U.S. 491 (1983).
See also Int’l Longshoremen’s Ass’n v. Davis, 476 U.S. 380 (1986).
    1244 436 U.S. 180 (1978).
    1245 San Diego Building Trades Council v. Garmon, 359 U.S. 236, 244 (1959).
