from stated weight caused by distribution losses, such as through
partial dehydration, the state allowed no such deviation. Although
it was possible for a producer to satisfy the federal standard while
satisfying the tougher state standard, the Court discerned that to
do so defeated one purpose of the federal requirement—the facilitat-
ing of value comparisons by shoppers. Because different producers
in different situations in order to comply with the state standard
may have to overpack flour to make up for dehydration loss, con-
sumers would not be comparing packages containing identical amounts
of flour solids.1208 In Felder v. Casey,1209 a state notice-of-claim stat-
ute was found to frustrate the remedial objectives of civil rights laws
as applied to actions brought in state court under 42 U.S.C. § 1983.
A state law recognizing the validity of an unrecorded oral sale of
an aircraft was held preempted by the Federal Aviation Act’s provi-
sion that unrecorded “instruments” of transfer are invalid, since the
congressional purpose evidenced in the legislative history was to make
information about an aircraft’s title readily available by requiring
that all transfers be documented and recorded.1210
    In Boggs v. Boggs,1211 the Court, 5-to-4, applied the “stands as
an obstacle” test for conflict even though the statute (ERISA) con-
tains an express preemption section. The dispute arose in a
community-property state, in which heirs of a deceased wife claimed
property that involved pension-benefit assets that was left to them
by testamentary disposition, as against a surviving second wife. Two
ERISA provisions operated to prevent the descent of the property
to the heirs, but under community-property rules the property could
have been left to the heirs by their deceased mother. The Court did
not pause to analyze whether the ERISA preemption provision op-
erated to preclude the descent of the property, either because state
law “relate[d] to” a covered pension plan or because state law had
an impermissible “connection with” a plan, but it instead decided
that the operation of the state law insofar as it conflicted with the
purposes Congress had intended to achieve by ERISA and insofar
as it ran into the two noted provisions of ERISA stood as an ob-
stacle to the effectuation of the ERISA law. “We can begin, and in
this case end, the analysis by simply asking if state law conflicts
with the provisions of ERISA or operates to frustrate its objects.
We hold that there is a conflict, which suffices to resolve the case.
We need not inquire whether the statutory phrase ‘relate to’ pro-

   1208 Jones v. Rath Packing Co., 430 U.S. 519, 532–543 (1977).
   1209 487 U.S. 131 (1988).
   1210 Philco Aviation v. Shacket, 462 U.S. 406 (1983).
   1211 520 U.S. 833 (1997).
