press preemption clause was inapplicable, because the saving clause
implied that some number of state common law actions would be
saved. However, despite the saving clause, the Court ruled that a
common law tort action seeking damages for failure to equip a car
with a front seat airbag, in addition to a seat belt, was preempted.
According to the Court, allowing the suit would frustrate the pur-
pose of a Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard that specifically
had intended to give manufacturers a choice among a variety of “pas-
sive restraint” systems for the applicable model year.1180 The Court’s
holding makes clear, contrary to the suggestion in Cipollone, that
existence of express preemption language does not foreclose the al-
ternative operation of conflict (in this case “frustration of purpose”)
preemption.1181
    Field Preemption. Where the scheme of federal regulation is “so
pervasive as to make reasonable the inference that Congress left
no room for the States to supplement it,” 1182 states are ousted from
the field. Still a paradigmatic example of field preemption is Hines
v. Davidowitz,1183 in which the Court held that a new federal law
requiring the registration of all aliens in the country precluded en-
forcement of a pre-existing state law mandating registration of aliens
within the state.1184 Adverting to the supremacy of national power
in foreign relations and the sensitivity of the relationship between
     1180 The Court focused on the word “exempt” to give the saving clause a narrow

application—as “simply bar[ring] a special kind of defense, . . . that compliance with
a federal safety standard automatically exempts a defendant from state law, whether
the Federal Government meant that standard to be an absolute requirement or only
a minimum one.” 529 U.S. at 869. But cf. Sprietsma v. Mercury Marine, 537 U.S. 51
(2002) (interpreting preemption language and saving clause in Federal Boat Safety
Act as not precluding a state common law tort action).
     1181 Compare Williamson v. Mazda Motor of America, Inc., 562 U.S. ___, No. 08–

1314, slip op. (2011) (applying same statute as Geir, and later version of same regu-
lation, no conflict preemption found of common law suit based on rear seat belt type,
because giving manufacturers a choice on the type of rear seat belt to install was
not a “significant objective” of the statute or regulation). For a decision applying
express preemption language to a variety of state common law claims, see Bates v.
Dow Agrosciences LLC, 544 U.S. 431 (2005) (interpreting FIFRA, the federal law
governing pesticides).
     1182 Rice v. Santa Fe Elevator Corp., 331 U.S. 218, 230 (1947). The case also is

the source of the oft-quoted maxim that when Congress legislates in a field tradition-
ally occupied by the states, courts should “start with the assumption that the his-
toric police powers of the States were not to be superseded by the Federal Act un-
less that was the clear and manifest purpose of Congress.” Id.
     1183 312 U.S. 52 (1941).
     1184 In Arizona v. United States, the Court struck down state penalties for vio-

lating federal alien registration requirements, emphasizing that “[w]here Congress
occupies an entire field, . . . even complementary state regulation is impermissible.”
567 U.S. ___, No. 11–182, slip op. at 10 (2012) The same case also struck down on
preemption grounds state sanctions on unauthorized aliens who work or seek em-
ployment, id. at 12–15, and authority for state officers to make warrantless arrests
based on possible deportability under federal immigration law. Id. By contrast, a
