by apportionment so that no jurisdiction may tax all the property
of a multistate business, and the rule of apportionment is enforced
by the Supreme Court with jurisdiction over all the states. How-
ever, the Court is unable to enforce such a rule against another coun-
try, and the country of the domicile of the business may impose a
tax on full value. Uniformity could be frustrated by disputes over
multiple taxation, and trade disputes could result.
    Applying both these concerns, the Court invalidated a state tax,
a nondiscriminatory, ad valorem property tax, on foreign-owned in-
strumentalities, i.e., cargo containers, of international commerce. The
containers were used exclusively in international commerce and were
based in Japan, which did in fact tax them on full value. Thus, there
was the actuality, not only the risk, of multiple taxation. National
uniformity was endangered, because, although California taxed the
Japanese containers, Japan did not tax American containers, and
disputes resulted.1132
    On the other hand, the Court has upheld a state tax on all avia-
tion fuel sold within the state as applied to a foreign airline operat-
ing charters to and from the United States. The Court found the
Complete Auto standards met, and it similarly decided that the two
standards specifically raised in foreign commerce cases were not vio-
lated. First, there was no danger of double taxation because the tax
was imposed upon a discrete transaction—the sale of fuel—that oc-
curred within only one jurisdiction. Second, the one-voice standard
was satisfied, because the United States had never entered into any
compact with a foreign nation precluding such state taxation, hav-
ing only signed agreements with others, which had no force of law,
aspiring to eliminate taxation that constituted impediments to air
travel.1133 Also, a state unitary-tax scheme that used a worldwide-
combined reporting formula was upheld as applied to the taxing of
the income of a domestic-based corporate group with extensive for-
eign operations.1134
    Extending Container Corp., the Court in Barclays Bank v. Fran-
chise Tax Bd. of California, 1135 upheld the state’s worldwide-
     1132 441 U.S. at 451–57. For income taxes, the test is more lenient, accepting

not only the risk but the actuality of some double taxation as something simply in-
herent in accounting devices. Container Corp. of America v. Franchise Tax Board,
463 U.S. 159, 187–192 (1983).
     1133 Wardair Canada v. Florida Dep’t of Revenue, 477 U.S. 1, 10 (1986).
     1134 Container Corp. of America v. Franchise Tax Board, 463 U.S. 159 (1983).

The validity of the formula as applied to domestic corporations with foreign parents
or to foreign corporations with foreign parents or foreign subsidiaries, so that some
of the income earned abroad would be taxed within the taxing state, is a question of
some considerable dispute.
     1135 512 U.S. 298 (1994).
