violation of the clause.1078 Expanding, although neither unexpect-
edly nor exceptionally, its dormant commerce jurisprudence, the Court
in Camps Newfound/Owatonna, Inc. v. Town of Harrison,1079 ap-
plied its nondiscrimination element of the doctrine to invalidate the
state’s charitable property tax exemption statute, which applied to
nonprofit firms performing benevolent and charitable functions, but
which excluded entities serving primarily out-of-state residents. The
claimant here operated a church camp for children, most of whom
resided out-of-state. The discriminatory tax would easily have fallen
had it been applied to profit-making firms, and the Court saw no
reason to make an exception for nonprofits. The tax scheme was
designed to encourage entities to care for local populations and to
discourage attention to out-of-state individuals and groups. “For pur-
poses of Commerce Clause analysis, any categorical distinction be-
tween the activities of profit-making enterprises and not-for-profit
entities is therefore wholly illusory. Entities in both categories are
major participants in interstate markets. And, although the sum-
mer camp involved in this case may have a relatively insignificant
impact on the commerce of the entire Nation, the interstate com-
mercial activities of nonprofit entities as a class are unquestion-
ably significant.” 1080
     Benefit Relationship.—Although, in all the modern cases, the Court
has stated that a necessary factor to sustain state taxes having an
interstate impact is that the levy be fairly related to benefits pro-
vided by the taxing state, it has declined to be drawn into any con-
sideration of the amount of the tax or the value of the benefits be-
stowed. The test rather is whether, as a matter of the first factor,
the business has the requisite nexus with the state; if it does, then
the tax meets the fourth factor simply because the business has en-
joyed the opportunities and protections that the state has afforded
it.1081
     1078 New Energy Co. of Indiana v. Limbach, 486 U.S. 269 (1988). Compare Fulton

Corp. v. Faulkner, 516 U.S. 325 (1996) (state intangibles tax on a fraction of the
value of corporate stock owned by in-state residents inversely proportional to the
corporation’s exposure to the state income tax violated dormant commerce clause),
with General Motors Corp. v. Tracy, 519 U.S. 278 (1997) (state imposition of sales
and use tax on all sales of natural gas except sales by regulated public utilities, all
of which were in-state companies, but covering all other sellers that were out-of-
state companies did not violate dormant commerce clause because regulated and un-
regulated companies were not similarly situated).
     1079 520 U.S. 564 (1997). The decision was 5-to-4 with a strong dissent by Jus-

tice Scalia, id. at 595, and a philosophical departure by Justice Thomas. Id. at 609.
     1080 520 U.S. at 586.
     1081 Commonwealth Edison Co. v. Montana, 453 U.S. 609, 620–29 (1981). Two

state taxes imposing flat rates on truckers, because they did not vary directly with
miles traveled or with some other proxy for value obtained from the state, were found
to violate this standard in American Trucking Ass’ns, Inc. v. Scheiner, 483 U.S. 266,
