been required to accommodate themselves in the controversy to ac-
cept from each other less than each has been willing to accept but
more than either has been willing to grant.1609

              THE POWER TO RAISE AND MAINTAIN ARMED
                             FORCES

Purpose of Specific Grants
     The clauses of the Constitution, which give Congress authority
to raise and support armies, and so forth, were not inserted to en-
dow the national government rather than the States with the power
to do these things but to designate the department of the Federal
Government, which would exercise the powers. As we have noted
above, the English king was endowed with the power not only to
initiate war but the power to raise and maintain armies and na-
vies.1610 Aware historically that these powers had been used to the
detriment of the liberties and well-being of Englishmen and aware
that in the English Declaration of Rights of 1688 it was insisted
that standing armies could not be maintained without the consent
of Parliament, the Framers vested these basic powers in Con-
gress.1611

Time Limit on Appropriations for the Army
     Prompted by the fear of standing armies to which Story al-
luded, the framers inserted the limitation that “no appropriation of
money to that use shall be for a longer term than two years.” In
1904, the question arose whether this provision would be violated
if the government contracted to pay a royalty for use of a patent in
constructing guns and other equipment where the payments are likely
to continue for more than two years. Solicitor-General Hoyt ruled
that such a contract would be lawful; that the appropriations lim-
ited by the Constitution “are those only which are to raise and sup-
port armies in the strict sense of the word ‘support,’ and that the
inhibition of that clause does not extend to appropriations for the
various means which an army may use in military operations, or
which are deemed necessary for the common defense. . . .” 1612 Re-
lying on this earlier opinion, Attorney General Clark ruled in 1948
that there was “no legal objection to a request to the Congress to

       1609   For further discussion, see section on President’s commander-in-chief pow-
ers.
       1610 W. BLACKSTONE, COMMENTARIES 263 (St. G. Tucker ed., 1803).
       1611 3 J. STORY, COMMENTARIES ON THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 1187 (1833).
       1612 25 Ops. Atty. Gen. 105, 108 (1904).
