federal standard was a “minimum” one rather than a “uniform” one
and decided that growers could comply with both.1205
    Third, a fruitful source of preemption is found when it is deter-
mined that the state law stands as an obstacle to the accomplish-
ment of the full purposes and objectives of Congress.1206 Thus, de-
spite the inclusion of a saving clause preserving liability under common
law, the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act nevertheless
was found to have preempted a state common law tort action based
on the failure of a car manufacturer to install front seat airbags:
Giving car manufacturers some leeway in developing and introduc-
ing passive safety restraint devices was, according to the Court, a
key congressional objective under the Act, one that would frus-
trated should a tort action be allowed to proceed.1207 The Court also
has voided a state requirement that the average net weight of a
package of flour in a lot could not be less than the net weight stated
on the package. While applicable federal law permitted variations
    1205  Florida Lime & Avocado Growers v. Paul, 373 U.S. 132 (1963).
    1206  The standard is drawn from Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U.S. 52, 67 (1941),
which often is held out as a leading example of field preemption analysis. When
“frustration of purpose” predominates in an opinion, it may be fairer to characterize
the issue as one of conflict preemption, rather than field preemption, for the possi-
bility of a limited state role would appear to be implicitly recognized. Arizona v. United
States, in which the Court found three of the four Arizona immigration provisions it
examined to be preempted, illustrates the continuum from field to conflict analysis.
In overturning state penalties for violations of federal alien registration require-
ments, the Court found the sweep and detail of the federal law to leave no room
whatsoever for state regulation. In overturning state sanctions against unauthor-
ized aliens seeking employment or working, the Court emphasized that the compre-
hensive system of federal employer sanctions eschewed employee sanctions, and al-
lowing states to impose them would upset the careful policy balance struck by Congress.
In overturning state authority to arrest individuals believed to be deportable on crimi-
nal grounds, the Court did not examine whether state officers have any inherent
arrest authority in deportation cases, but rather found that allowing states to en-
gage in such arrests as a general matter creates an obstacle to congressional objec-
tives. And finally, the Court declined to overturn on its face a state policy of check-
ing the immigration status of individuals stopped by the police for general law
enforcement purposes, finding that federal law facilitated status checks and only imple-
mentation of the status check policy would disclose whether federal enforcement policy
ultimately would be frustrated. 567 U.S. ___, No. 11–182, slip op. (2012).
     See also Hillman v. Maretta, 569 U.S. ___, No. 11–1221, slip op. (2013) (state
law cause of action against ex-spouse for life insurance proceeds paid under a desgna-
tion of beneficiary in a federal employee policy held to be preempted by federal em-
ployee insurance statute giving employees the right to designate: beyond administra-
tive convenience, Congress intended that the proceeds actually belong to named
beneficiary); Barnett Bank of Marion County v. Nelson, 517 U.S. 25 (1996) (federal
law empowering national banks in small towns to sell insurance preempts state law
prohibiting banks from dealing in insurance). Unsurprisingly, the Justices at times
disagree on what Congress’s primary objectives and purposes were in passing par-
ticular legislation, and such a disagreement can end with different conclusions about
whether state law has been preempted. See AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion, 563
U.S. ___, No. 09–893, slip op. (2011).
     1207 Geier v. American Honda Motor Co., 529 U.S. 861 (2000).
