     Since the turn of the 20th century, federal legislation, primar-
ily but not exclusively under the Commerce Clause, has penetrated
deeper and deeper into areas once occupied by the regulatory power
of the states. One result is that state laws on subjects about which
Congress has legislated have been more and more frequently at-
tacked as being incompatible with the acts of Congress and hence
invalid under the supremacy clause.1146
     “The constitutional principles of preemption, in whatever par-
ticular field of law they operate, are designed with a common end
in view: to avoid conflicting regulation of conduct by various official
bodies which might have some authority over the subject mat-
ter.” 1147 As Justice Black once explained in a much quoted exposi-
tion of the matter: “There is not—and from the very nature of the
problem there cannot be—any rigid formula or rule which can be
used as a universal pattern to determine the meaning and purpose
of every act of Congress. This Court, in considering the validity of
state laws in the light of treaties or federal laws touching the same
subject, has made use of the following expressions: conflicting; con-
trary to; occupying the field; repugnance; difference; irreconcilabil-
ity; inconsistency; violation; curtailment; and interference. But none
of these expressions provides an infallible constitutional test or an
exclusive constitutional yardstick. In the final analysis, there can
be no one crystal clear distinctly marked formula. Our primary func-
tion is to determine whether, under the circumstances of this par-
ticular case, Pennsylvania’s law stands as an obstacle to the accom-
plishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of
Congress.” 1148
     Before setting out in their various forms the standards and can-
ons to which the Court formally adheres, one must still recognize
the highly subjective nature of their application. As an astute ob-
server long ago observed, “the use or non-use of particular tests, as
well as their content, is influenced more by judicial reaction to the
desirability of the state legislation brought into question than by
metaphorical sign-language of ‘occupation of the field.’ And it would
seem that this is largely unavoidable. The Court, in order to deter-
mine an unexpressed congressional intent, has undertaken the task
of making the independent judgment of social values that Congress
     1146 Cases considered under this heading are overwhelmingly about federal leg-

islation based on the Commerce Clause, but the principles enunciated are identical
whatever source of power Congress uses. Therefore, cases arising under legislation
based on other powers are cited and treated interchangeably.
     1147 Amalgamated Ass’n of Street Employees v. Lockridge, 403 U.S. 274, 285–86

(1971).
     1148 Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U.S. 52, 67 (1941). This case arose under the im-

migration power of clause 4.
