tion of interests of loyal citizens, merely created a municipal forfei-
ture and did not override or displace the law of prize. It decided,
therefore, that when a vessel was liable to condemnation under ei-
ther law, the government was at liberty to proceed under the most
stringent rules of international law, with the result that the citizen
would be deprived of the benefit of the protective provisions of the
statute.1719 Similarly, when Cuban ports were blockaded during the
Spanish-American War, the Court held, over the vigorous dissent
of three of its members, that the rule of international law exempt-
ing unarmed fishing vessels from capture was applicable in the ab-
sence of any treaty provision, or other public act of the government
in relation to the subject.1720

The Constitution at Home in Wartime
     Personal Liberty.—“The Constitution of the United States is
a law for rulers and people, equally in war and in peace, and cov-
ers with the shield of its protection all classes of men, at all times,
and under all circumstances. No doctrine, involving more perni-
cious consequences, was ever invented by the wit of man than that
any of its provisions can be suspended during any of the great exi-
gencies of government. Such a doctrine leads directly to anarchy or
despotism, but the theory of necessity on which it is based is false;
for the government, within the Constitution, has all the powers granted
to it, which are necessary to preserve its existence; as has been hap-
pily proved by the result of the great effort to throw off its just au-
thority.” 1721
     Ex parte Milligan, from which these words are quoted, is justly
deemed one of the great cases undergirding civil liberty in this coun-
try in times of war or other great crisis. The Court held that, ex-
cept in areas in which armed hostilities have made enforcement of
civil law impossible, constitutional rights may not be suspended and
civilians subjected to the vagaries of military justice. Yet, the words
were uttered after the cessation of hostilities, and the Justices them-
selves recognized that with the end of the shooting there arose the
greater likelihood that constitutional rights could be and would be
observed and that the Court would require the observance.1722 This
pattern recurs with each critical period.

    1719  The Hampton, 72 U.S. (5 Wall.) 372, 376 (1867).
    1720  The Paquete Habana, 175 U.S. 677, 700, 711 (1900).
     1721 Ex parte Milligan, 71 U.S. (4 Wall.) 2, 120–21 (1866).
     1722 “During the late wicked Rebellion, the temper of the times did not allow

that calmness in deliberation and discussion so necessary to a correct conclusion of
a purely judicial question. Then, considerations of safety were mingled with the ex-
ercise of power; and feelings and interests prevailed which were happily termi-
