actment. The Alaska law requires released sex offenders to register
with local police and also provides for public notification via the In-
ternet. The Court accords “considerable deference” to legislative in-
tent; if the legislature’s purpose was to enact a civil regulatory scheme,
then the law can be ex post facto only if there is “the clearest proof ”
of punitive effect.2008 Here, the Court determined, the legislative in-
tent was civil and non-punitive—to promote public safety by “pro-
tecting the public from sex offenders.” The Court then identified sev-
eral “useful guideposts” to aid analysis of whether a law intended
to be non-punitive nonetheless has punitive effect. Registration and
public notification of sex offenders are of recent origin, and are not
viewed as a “traditional means of punishment.” 2009 The Act does
not subject the registrants to an “affirmative disability or re-
straint”; there is no physical restraint or occupational disbarment,
and there is no restraint or supervision of living conditions, as there
can be under conditions of probation. The fact that the law might
deter future crimes does not make it punitive. All that is required,
the Court explained, is a rational connection to a non-punitive pur-
pose, and the statute need not be narrowly tailored to that end.2010
Nor is the act “excessive” in relation to its regulatory purpose.2011
Rather, the “means chosen are reasonable in light of the [state’s]
non-punitive objective” of promoting public safety by giving its citi-
zens information about former sex offenders, who, as a group, have
an alarmingly high rate of recidivism.2012
    There are three categories of ex post facto laws: those “which
punish[ ] as a crime an act previously committed, which was inno-
cent when done; which make[ ] more burdensome the punishment
for a crime, after its commission; or which deprive[ ] one charged
with crime of any defense available according to law at the time


    2008  538 U.S. at 92.
    2009  The law’s requirements do not closely resemble punishments of public dis-
grace imposed in colonial times; the stigma of Megan’s Law results not from public
shaming but from the dissemination of information about a criminal record, most of
which is already public. 538 U.S. at 98.
     2010 538 U.S. at 102.
     2011 Excessiveness was alleged to stem both from the law’s duration (15 years of

notification by those convicted of less serious offenses; lifetime registration by seri-
ous offenders) and in terms of the widespread (Internet) distribution of the informa-
tion.
     2012 538 U.S. at 105. Unlike involuntary civil commitment, where “the magni-

tude of restraint [makes] individual assessment appropriate,” the state may make
“reasonable categorical judgments,” and need not provide individualized determina-
tions of dangerousness. Id. at 103.
