    But the most striking exertions of the police power touching pri-
vate contracts, as well as other private interests within recent years,
have been evoked by war and economic depression. Thus, in World
War I, the State of New York enacted a statute which, declaring
that a public emergency existed, forbade the enforcement of cov-
enants for the surrender of the possession of premises on the expi-
ration of leases, and wholly deprived for a period owners of dwell-
ings, including apartment and tenement houses, within the City of
New York and contiguous counties, of possessory remedies for the
eviction from their premises of tenants in possession when the law
took effect, providing the latter were able and willing to pay a rea-
sonable rent. In answer to objections leveled against this legisla-
tion on the basis of the Contract Clause, the Court said: “But con-
tracts are made subject to this exercise of the power of the State
when otherwise justified, as we have held this to be.” 2183 In a sub-
sequent case, however, the Court added that, although the declara-
tion by the legislature of a justifying emergency was entitled to great
respect, it was not conclusive; a law “depending upon the existence
of an emergency or other certain state of facts to uphold it may
cease to operate if the emergency ceases or the facts change,” and
whether they have changed was always open to judicial inquiry.2184
     Summing up the result of the cases referred to above, Chief Jus-
tice Hughes, speaking for the Court in Home Building & Loan Ass’n
v. Blaisdell,2185 remarked in 1934: “It is manifest from this review
of our decisions that there has been a growing appreciation of pub-
lic needs and of the necessity of finding ground for a rational com-
promise between individual rights and public welfare. The settle-
ment and consequent contraction of the public domain, the pressure
of a constantly increasing density of population, the interrelation
of the activities of our people and the complexity of our economic
interests, have inevitably led to an increased use of the organiza-
tion of society in order to protect the very bases of individual oppor-
tunity. Where, in earlier days, it was thought that only the con-
cerns of individuals or of classes were involved, and that those of
the State itself were touched only remotely, it has later been found
that the fundamental interests of the State are directly affected;
and that the question is no longer merely that of one party to a
contract as against another, but of the use of reasonable means to
safeguard the economic structure upon which the good of all de-
pends. . . . The principle of this development is . . . that the reser-
    2183 Marcus Brown Co. v. Feldman, 256 U.S. 170, 198 (1921), followed in Levy

Leasing Co. v. Siegel, 258 U.S. 242 (1922).
    2184 Chastleton Corp. v. Sinclair, 264 U.S. 543, 547–48 (1924).
    2185 290 U.S. 398 (1934).
