    The Court shortly afterward applied the same reasoning in a
case challenging the right of Louisiana to invade the exclusive privi-
lege of a corporation engaged in the slaughter of cattle in New Or-
leans by granting another company the right to engage in the same
business. Although the state did not offer to compensate the older
company for the lost monopoly, its action was sustained on the ground
that it had been taken in the interest of the public health.2148 When,
however, the City of New Orleans, in reliance on this precedent,
sought to repeal an exclusive franchise which it had granted a com-
pany for fifty years to supply gas to its inhabitants, the Court inter-
posed its veto, explaining that in this instance neither the public
health, the public morals, nor the public safety was involved.2149
    Later decisions, nonetheless, apply the principle of inalienabil-
ity broadly. To quote from one: “It is settled that neither the ‘con-
tract’ clause nor the ‘due process’ clause has the effect of overriding
the power to the State to establish all regulations that are reason-
ably necessary to secure the health, safety, good order, comfort, or
general welfare of the community; that this power can neither be
abdicated nor bargained away, and is inalienable even by express
grant; and all contract and property rights are held subject to its
fair exercise.” 2150
    It would scarcely suffice today for a company to rely upon its
charter privileges or upon special concessions from a state in resist-
ing the application to it of measures alleged to have been enacted
under the police power thereof; if this claim is sustained, the obli-
gation of the contract clause will not avail, and if it is not, the due
process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment will furnish a
sufficient reliance. That is to say, the discrepancy that once existed
between the Court’s theory of an overriding police power in these
two adjoining fields of constitutional law is today apparently at an
end. Indeed, there is usually no sound reason why rights based on
public grant should be regarded as more sacrosanct than rights that
involve the same subject matter but are of different provenance.
    Private Contracts.—The term “private contract” is, naturally,
not all-inclusive. A judgment, though granted in favor of a creditor,

    2148 Butchers’ Union Slaughter-House and Live-Stock Landing Co. v. Crescent

City Live-Stock Landing and Slaughter-House Co., 111 U.S. 746 (1884).
    2149 New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115 U.S. 650 (1885).
    2150 Atlantic Coast Line R.R. v. City of Goldsboro, 232 U.S. 548, 558 (1914). See

also Chicago & Alton R.R. v. Tranbarger, 238 U.S. 67 (1915); Pennsylvania Hospital
v. Philadelphia, 245 U.S. 20 (1917); where the police power and eminent domain are
treated on the same basis in respect of inalienability; Wabash R.R. v. Defiance, 167
U.S. 88, 97 (1897); Home Tel. & Tel. Co. v. City of Los Angeles, 211 U.S. 265 (1908).
