sons, corporate and individual alike, to the legislative power of the
state has been fortified, is the doctrine that certain of the state’s
powers are inalienable, and that any attempt by a state to alienate
them, upon any consideration whatsoever, is ipso facto void and hence
incapable to producing a “contract” within the meaning of Article I,
§ 10. One of the earliest cases to assert this principle was decided
in New York in 1826. The corporation of the City of New York, hav-
ing conveyed certain lands for the purposes of a church and cem-
etery together with a covenant for quiet enjoyment, later passed a
by-law forbidding their use as a cemetery. In denying an action against
the city for breach of covenant, the state court said the defendants
“had no power as a party, [to the covenant] to make a contract which
should control or embarrass their legislative powers and du-
ties.” 2140
     The Supreme Court first applied similar doctrine in 1848 in a
case involving a grant of exclusive right to construct a bridge at a
specified locality. Sustaining the right of the State of Vermont to
make a new grant to a competing company, the Court held that the
obligation of the earlier exclusive grant was sufficiently recognized
in making just compensation for it; and that corporate franchises,
like all other forms of property, are subject to the overruling power
of eminent domain.2141 This reasoning was reinforced by an appeal
to the theory of state sovereignty, which was held to involve the
corollary of the inalienability of all the principal powers of a state.
     The subordination of all charter rights and privileges to the power
of eminent domain has been maintained by the Court ever since;
not even an explicit agreement by the state to forego the exercise
of the power will avail against it.2142 Conversely, the state may re-
voke an improvident grant of public property without recourse to
the power of eminent domain, such a grant being inherently be-
yond the power of the state to make. Thus, when the legislature of
Illinois in 1869 devised to the Illinois Central Railroad Company,
its successors and assigns, the state’s right and title to nearly a
thousand acres of submerged land under Lake Michigan along the
harbor front of Chicago, and four years later sought to repeal the
grant, the Court, a four-to-three decision, sustained an action by
the state to recover the lands in question. Justice Field wrote for
the majority: “Such abdication is not consistent with the exercise
of that trust which requires the government of the State to pre-
    2140 Brick Presbyterian Church v. New York, 5 Cow. (N.Y.) 538, 540 (1826).
    2141 West River Bridge Co. v. Dix, 47 U.S. (6 How.) 507 (1848). See also Backus
v. Lebanon, 11 N.H. 19 (1840); White River Turnpike Co. v. Vermont Cent. R. Co.,
21 Vt. 590 (1849); and Bonaparte v. Camden & A.R. Co., 3 Fed. Cas. 821 (No. 1617)
(C.C.D.N.J. 1830).
    2142 Pennsylvania Hospital v. City of Philadelphia, 245 U.S. 20 (1917).
