sale bribery. So when a new legislature took over in the winter of
1795–1796, almost its first act was to revoke the sale made the pre-
vious year.
    Meantime, however, the land companies had disposed of sev-
eral millions of acres of their holdings to speculators and prospec-
tive settlers, and following the rescinding act some of these took
counsel with Alexander Hamilton as to their rights. In an opinion
which was undoubtedly known to the Court when it decided Fletcher
v. Peck, Hamilton characterized the repeal as contravening “the first
principles of natural justice and social policy,” especially so far as
it was made “to the prejudice . . . of third persons . . . innocent of
the alleged fraud or corruption; . . . moreover,” he added, “the Con-
stitution of the United States, article first, section tenth, declares
that no State shall pass a law impairing the obligations of con-
tract. This must be equivalent to saying no State shall pass a law
revoking, invalidating, or altering a contract. Every grant from one
to another, whether the grantor be a State or an individual, is vir-
tually a contract that the grantee shall hold and enjoy the thing
granted against the grantor, and his representatives. It, therefore,
appears to me that taking the terms of the Constitution in their
large sense, and giving them effect according to the general spirit
and policy of the provisions, the revocation of the grant by the act
of the legislature of Georgia may justly be considered as contrary
to the Constitution of the United States, and, therefore null. And
that the courts of the United States, in cases within their jurisdic-
tion, will be likely to pronounce it so.” 2096 Hamilton’s views were
quoted frequently in the congressional debate over the “Yazoo Land
Frauds,” as they were contemporaneously known.
    So far as it invoked the Contract Clause, Marshall’s opinion in
Fletcher v. Peck performed two creative acts. It recognized that an
obligatory contract was one still to be performed—in other words,
was an executory contract, also that a grant of land was an ex-
ecuted contract—a conveyance. But, Marshall asserted, every grant
is attended by “an implied contract” on the part of the grantor not
to claim again the thing granted. Thus, grants are brought within
the category of contracts having continuing obligation and so within
Article I, § 10. But the question still remained of the nature of this
obligation. Marshall’s answer to this can only be inferred from his
statement at the end of his opinion. The State of Georgia, he says,
“was restrained” from the passing of the rescinding act “either by

    2096 B. WRIGHT, THE CONTRACT CLAUSE OF THE CONSTITUTION 22 (1938). Professor Wright

dates Hamilton’s pamphlet as from 1796.
