        the time of its formation. The repeal of the covenant in issue was
        found to fail both prongs of the test.2200
             In Spannaus, the Court drew from its prior cases four stan-
        dards: did the law deal with a broad generalized economic or social
        problem, did it operate in an area already subject to state regula-
        tion at the time the contractual obligations were entered into, did
        it effect simply a temporary alteration of the contractual relation-
        ship, and did the law operate upon a broad class of affected indi-
        viduals or concerns. The Court found that the challenged law did
        not possess any of these attributes and thus struck it down.2201
             Whether these two cases portend an active judicial review of
        economic regulatory activities, in contrast to the extreme deference
        shown such legislation under the due process and equal protection
        clauses, is problematical. Both cases contain language emphasizing
        the breadth of the police powers of government that may be used
        to further the public interest and admitting limited judicial scru-
        tiny. Nevertheless, “[i]f the Contract Clause is to retain any mean-
        ing at all . . . it must be understood to impose some limits upon
        the power of a State to abridge existing contractual relationships,
        even in the exercise of its otherwise legitimate police power.” 2202
    Clause 2. No State shall, without the Consent of the Con-
gress, lay any Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports, except
what may be absolutely necessary for executing it’s inspection
Laws: and the net Produce of all Duties and Imposts, laid by
any State on Imports or Exports, shall be for the Use of the Trea-
sury of the United States; and all such Laws shall be subject to
the Revision and Control of the Congress.
                         DUTIES ON EXPORTS OR IMPORTS
        Scope
            Only articles imported from or exported to a foreign country, or
        “a place over which the Constitution has not extended its com-
             2200 431 U.S. at 25–32 (state could have modified the impairment to achieve its

        purposes without totally abandoning the covenant, though the Court reserved judg-
        ment whether lesser impairments would have been constitutional, id. at 30 n.28,
        and it had alternate means to achieve its purposes; the need for mass transporta-
        tion was obvious when covenant was enacted and state could not claim that unfore-
        seen circumstances had arisen.)
             2201 438 U.S. at 244–51. See also Exxon Corp. v. Eagerton, 462 U.S. 176 (1983)

        (emphasizing the first but relying on all but the third of these tests in upholding a
        prohibition on pass-through of an oil and gas severance tax).
             2202 438 U.S. at 242 (emphasis by Court).
