ture the Court formerly felt free to determine questions of funda-
mental justice for itself. Indeed, in such a case, the Court in the
past has apparently regarded itself as free to pass upon the consti-
tutionality of the state law authorizing the bonds even though there
had been no prior decision by the highest state court sustaining them,
the idea being that contracts entered into simply on the faith of
the presumed constitutionality of a state statute are entitled to this
protection.2055
     In other words, in cases in which it has jurisdiction because of
diversity of citizenship, the Court has held that the obligation of
contracts is capable of impairment by subsequent judicial decisions
no less than by subsequent statutes, and that it is able to prevent
such impairment. In cases, on the other hand, of which it obtains
jurisdiction only on the constitutional ground and by appeal from a
state court, it has always adhered in terms to the doctrine that the
word “laws” as used in Article I, § 10, does not include judicial de-
cisions. Yet, even in these cases, it will intervene to protect con-
tracts entered into on the faith of existing decisions from an impair-
ment that is the direct result of a reversal of such decisions, but
there must be in the offing, as it were, a statute of some kind—one
possibly many years older than the contract rights involved—on which
to pin its decision.2056
     In 1922, Congress, through an amendment to the Judicial Code,
endeavored to extend the reviewing power of the Supreme Court to
“any suit involving the validity of a contract wherein it is claimed
that a change in the rule of law or construction of statutes by the
highest court of a State applicable to such contract would be repug-
nant to the Constitution of the United States . . . .” 2057 This ap-
peared to be an invitation to the Court to say frankly that the obli-
gation of a contract can be impaired by a subsequent court decision.
The Court, however, declined the invitation in an opinion by Chief
Justice Taft that reviewed many of the cases covered in the preced-
ing paragraphs.
     Dealing with Gelpcke and subsequent decisions, Chief Justice
Taft said: “These cases were not writs of error to the Supreme Court
of a State. They were appeals or writs of error to federal courts
where recovery was sought upon municipal or county bonds or some
other form of contracts, the validity of which had been sustained
by decisions of the Supreme Court of a State prior to their execu-
tion, and had been denied by the same court after their issue or
   2055  Great Southern Hotel Co. v. Jones, 193 U.S. 532, 548 (1904).
   2056  Sauer v. New York, 206 U.S. 536 (1907); Muhlker v. New York & Harlem
R.R., 197 U.S. 544, 570 (1905).
    2057 42 Stat. 366.
