instances, one law involving the government’s own contractual obli-
gation and the other affecting private contracts.2195 A finding that
a contract has been “impaired” in some way is merely the prelimi-
nary step in evaluating the validity of the state action.2196 But in
both cases the Court applied a stricter-than-usual scrutiny to the
statutory action, in the public contracts case precisely because it
was its own obligation that the State was attempting to avoid and
in the private contract case, apparently, because the legislation was
in aid of a “narrow class.” 2197
    The approach in any event is one of balancing. “The severity of
the impairment measures the height of the hurdle the state legisla-
tion must clear. Minimal alteration of contractual obligations may
end the inquiry at its first stage. Severe impairment, on the other
hand, will push the inquiry to a careful examination of the nature
and purpose of the state legislation.” 2198 Having determined that a
severe impairment had resulted in both cases,2199 the Court moved
on to assess the justification for the state action.
    In United States Trust, the Court ruled that an impairment would
be upheld only if it were “necessary” and “reasonable” to serve an
important public purpose. But the two terms were given restrictive
meanings. Necessity is shown only when the state’s objectives could
not have been achieved through less dramatic modifications of the
contract; reasonableness is a function of the extent to which altera-
tion of the contract was prompted by circumstances unforeseen at




tices Rehnquist and Stevens joined both opinions of the Court. Of the three remain-
ing Justices, who did not participate in one or the other case, Justice Blackmun
wrote the opinion in United States Trust while Justice Stewart wrote the opinion in
Spannaus and Justice Powell joined it.
     2195 United States Trust involved a repeal of a covenant statutorily enacted to

encourage persons to purchase New York-New Jersey Port Authority bonds by limit-
ing the Authority’s ability to subsidize rail passenger transportation. Spannaus in-
volved a statute requiring prescribed employers who had a qualified pension plan to
provide funds sufficient to cover full pensions for all employees who had worked at
least 10 years if the employer either terminated the plan or closed his offices in the
state, a law that greatly altered the company’s liabilities under its contractual pen-
sion plan.
     2196 431 U.S. at 21; 438 U.S. at 244.
     2197 431 U.S. at 22–26; 438 U.S. at 248.
     2198 438 U.S. at 245.
     2199 431 U.S. at 17–21 (the Court was unsure of the value of the interest im-

paired but deemed it “an important security provision”); 438 U.S. 244–47 (statute
mandated company to recalculate, and in one lump sum, contributions previously
adequate).
