courts did regard them at the outset.2101 It is also the way in which
Blackstone regarded them in relation to the royal prerogative, al-
though not in relation to the sovereignty of Parliament, and the
same point of view found expression in Story’s concurring opinion
in Dartmouth College v. Woodward, as it did also in Webster’s argu-
ment in that case.2102
     The third view is the one formulated by Chief Justice Marshall
in his controlling opinion in Dartmouth College v. Woodward.2103 This
is that the charter of Dartmouth College, a purely private institu-
tion, was the outcome and partial record of a contract between the
donors of the college, on the one hand, and the British Crown, on
the other, and the contract still continued in force between the State
of New Hampshire, as the successor to the Crown and Government
of Great Britain, and the trustees, as successors to the donors. The
charter, in other words, was not simply a grant—rather it was the
documentary record of a still existent agreement between still exis-
tent parties.2104 Taking this view, which he developed with great
ingenuity and persuasiveness, Marshall was able to appeal to the
Contract Clause directly, and without further use of his fiction in
Fletcher v. Peck of an executory contract accompanying the grant.
     A difficulty still remained, however, in the requirement that a
contract, before it can have obligation, must import consideration,
that is to say, must be shown not to have been entirely gratuitous
on either side. Moreover, the consideration, which induced the Crown
to grant a charter to Dartmouth College, was not merely a specula-
tive one. It consisted of the donations of the donors to the impor-
tant public interest of education. Fortunately or unfortunately, in
dealing with this phase of the case, Marshall used more sweeping
terms than were needed. “The objects for which a corporation is cre-
ated,” he wrote, “are universally such as the government wishes to
promote. They are deemed beneficial to the country; and this ben-
efit constitutes the consideration, and in most cases, the sole con-
sideration of the grant.” In other words, the simple fact of the char-
     2101 In 1806, Chief Justice Parsons of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachu-

setts, without mentioning the Contract Clause, declared that rights legally vested
in a corporation cannot be “controlled of destroyed by a subsequent statute, unless
a power [for that purpose] be reserved to the legislature in the act of incorporation,”
Wales v. Stetson, 2 Mass. 142 (1806). See also Stoughton v. Baker, 4 Mass. 521 (1808)
to like effect; cf. Locke v. Dane, 9 Mass. 360 (1812), in which it is said that the
purpose of the Contract Clause was to provide against paper money and insolvent
laws. Together these holdings add up to the conclusion that the reliance of the Mas-
sachusetts court was on “fundamental principles,” rather than the Contract Clause.
     2102 17 U.S. (4 Wheat.) at 577–95 (Webster’s argument); id. at 666 (Story’s opin-

ion). See also Story’s opinion for the Court in Terrett v. Taylor, 13 U.S. (9 Cr.) 43
(1815).
     2103 17 U.S. (4 Wheat.) 518 (1819).
     2104 17 U.S. at 627.
