Regulation of the Militia
    The power of Congress over the militia “being unlimited, ex-
cept in the two particulars of officering and training them . . . it
may be exercised to any extent that may be deemed necessary by
Congress. . . . The power of the state government to legislate on
the same subjects, having existed prior to the formation of the Con-
stitution, and not having been prohibited by that instrument, it re-
mains with the States, subordinate nevertheless to the paramount
law of the General Government. . . .” 1762 Under the National De-
fense Act of 1916,1763 the militia, which had been an almost purely
state institution, was brought under the control of the National Gov-
ernment. The term “militia of the United States” was defined to com-
prehend “all able-bodied male citizens of the United States and all
other able-bodied males who have . . . declared their intention to
become citizens of the United States,” between the ages of eighteen
and forty-five. The act reorganized the National Guard, determined
its size in proportion to the population of the several States, re-
quired that all enlistments be for “three years in service and three
years in reserve,” limited the appointment of officers to those who
“shall have successfully passed such tests as to . . . physical, moral
and professional fitness as the President shall prescribe,” and au-
thorized the President in certain emergencies to “draft into the mili-
tary service of the United States to serve therein for the period of
the war unless sooner discharged, any or all members of the Na-
tional Guard and National Guard Reserve,” who thereupon should
“stand discharged from the militia.” 1764
    The militia clauses do not constrain Congress in raising and sup-
porting a national army. The Court has approved the system of “dual
enlistment,” under which persons enlisted in state militia (Na-
tional Guard) units simultaneously enlist in the National Guard of
the United States, and, when called to active duty in the federal
service, are relieved of their status in the state militia. Conse-
quently, the restrictions in the first militia clause have no applica-
tion to the federalized National Guard; there is no constitutional
requirement that state governors hold a veto power over federal duty
     1762 Houston v. Moore, 18 U.S. (5 Wheat.) 1, 16 (1820). Organizing and provid-

ing for the militia being constitutionally committed to Congress and statutorily shared
with the Executive, the judiciary is precluded from exercising oversight over the pro-
cess, Gilligan v. Morgan, 413 U.S. 1 (1973), although wrongs committed by troops
are subject to judicial relief in damages. Scheuer v. Rhodes, 416 U.S. 233 (1974).
     1763 39 Stat. 166, 197, 198, 200, 202, 211 (1916), codified in sections of Titles 10

& 32. See Wiener, The Militia Clause of the Constitution, 54 HARV. L. REV. 181 (1940).
     1764 Military and civilian personnel of the National Guard are state, rather than

federal, employees and the Federal Government is thus not liable under the Fed-
eral Tort Claims Act for their negligence. Maryland v. United States, 381 U.S. 41
(1965).
