the charter of the second company to be valid on the principle just
stated. Justice Story presented a vigorous dissent in which he ar-
gued cogently, but unavailingly, that the monopoly claimed by the
Charles River Bridge Company was fully as reasonable an implica-
tion from the terms of its charter and the circumstances surround-
ing its concession as perpetuity had been from the terms of the
Dartmouth College charter and the ensuing transaction.
     The Court was in fact making new law, because it was looking
at things from a new point of view. This was the period when judi-
cial recognition of the police power began to take on a doctrinal char-
acter. It was also the period when the railroad business was just
beginning. Chief Justice Taney’s opinion evinces the influence of both
these developments. The power of the state to provide for its own
internal happiness and prosperity was not, he asserted, to be pared
away by mere legal intendments, nor was its ability to avail itself
of the lights of modern science to be frustrated by obsolete inter-
ests such as those of the old turnpike companies, the charter privi-
leges of which, he apprehended, might easily become a bar to the
development of transportation along new lines.2121
     The Court has reiterated the rule of strict construction many
times. In Blair v. City of Chicago,2122 decided nearly seventy years
after Charles River Bridge, the Court said: “Legislative grants of
this character should be in such unequivocal form of expression that
the legislative mind may be distinctly impressed with their charac-
ter and import, in order that the privileges may be intelligently granted
or purposely withheld. It is a matter of common knowledge that
grants of this character are usually prepared by those interested in
them, and submitted to the legislature with a view to obtain from
such bodies the most liberal grant of privileges which they are will-
ing to give. This is one among many reasons why they are to be
strictly construed. . . . The principle is this, that all rights which
are asserted against the State must be clearly defined, and not raised
by inference or presumption; and if the charter is silent about a
power, it does not exist. If, on a fair reading of the instrument, rea-
sonable doubts arise as to the proper interpretation to be given to
it, those doubts are to be solved in favor of the State; and where it
is susceptible of two meanings, the one restricting and the other
extending the powers of the corporation, that construction is to be
adopted which works the least harm to the State.” 2123

    2121 36 U.S. at 548–53.
    2122 201 U.S. 400 (1906).
    2123 201 U.S. at 471, 472, quoting The Binghamton Bridge, 70 U.S. (3 Wall.) 51,

75 (1866).
