representative of a private organization to disclose the names of all
who had purchased such literature in quantity.235
    Still another example of lack of proper authority is Gojack v.
United States,236 in which the Court reversed a contempt citation
because there was no showing that the parent committee had del-
egated to the subcommittee before whom the witness had appeared
the authority to make the inquiry and neither had the full commit-
tee specified the area of inquiry.
    Watkins v. United States,237 remains the leading case on perti-
nency, although it has not the influence on congressional investiga-
tions that some hoped and some feared in the wake of its announce-
ment. When questioned by a Subcommittee of the House Un-
American Activities Committee, Watkins refused to supply the names
of past associates, who, to his knowledge, had terminated their mem-
bership in the Communist Party and supported his noncompliance
by, inter alia, contending that the questions were unrelated to the
work of the Committee. Sustaining the witness, the Court empha-
sized that inasmuch as a witness by his refusal exposes himself to
a criminal prosecution for contempt, he is entitled to be informed
of the relation of the question to the subject of the investigation
with the same precision as the Due Process Clause requires of stat-
utes defining crimes.238
    For ascertainment of the subject matter of an investigation, the
witness might look, noted the Court, to several sources, including
(1) the authorizing resolution, (2) the resolution by which the full
committee authorized the subcommittee to proceed, (3) the introduc-
tory remarks of the chairman or other members, (4) the nature of
the proceedings, (5) the chairman’s response to the witness when
the witness objects to the line of question on grounds of perti-
nency.239 Whether a precise delineation of the subject matter of the
investigation in but one of these sources would satisfy the require-
ments of due process was left unresolved, since the Court ruled that
in this case all of them were deficient in providing Watkins with
the guidance to which he was entitled. The sources had informed
Watkins that the questions were asked in a course of investigation
of something that ranged from a narrow inquiry into Communist
     235 The Court intimated that if the authorizing resolution did confer such power

upon the committee, the validity of the resolution would be subject to doubt on First
Amendment principles. Justices Black and Douglas would have construed the reso-
lution as granting the authority and would have voided it under the First Amend-
ment. 345 U.S. at 48 (concurring opinion).
     236 384 U.S. 702 (1966).
     237 354 U.S. 178 (1957).
     238 354 U.S. at 208–09.
     239 354 U.S. at 209–15.
