infiltration into the labor movement to a vague and unlimited in-
quiry into “subversion and subversive propaganda.” 240
    By and large, the subsequent cases demonstrated that Watkins
did not represent a determination by the Justices to restrain broadly
the course of congressional investigations, though several contempt
citations were reversed on narrow holdings. But with regard to per-
tinency, the implications of Watkins were held in check and, with-
out amending its rules or its authorizing resolution, the Un-
American Activities Committee was successful in convincing a majority
of the Court that its subsequent investigations were authorized and
that the questions asked of recalcitrant witnesses were pertinent
to the inquiries.241
    Thus, in Barenblatt v. United States,242 the Court concluded that
the history of the Un-American Activities Committee’s activities, viewed
     240 Id. See also Sacher v. United States, 356 U.S. 576 (1958), a per curiam rever-

sal of a contempt conviction on the ground that the questions did not relate to a
subject “within the subcommittee’s scope of inquiry,” arising out of a hearing pertain-
ing to a recantation of testimony by a witness in which the inquiry drifted into a
discussion of legislation barring Communists from practice at the federal bar, the
unanswered questions being asked then; and Flaxer v. United States, 358 U.S. 147
(1958), a reversal for refusal to produce membership lists because of an ambiguity
in the committee’s ruling on the time of performance; and Scull v. Virginia ex rel.
Committee, 359 U.S. 344 (1959), a reversal on a contempt citation before a state
legislative investigating committee on pertinency grounds.
     241 Notice should be taken, however, of two cases that, though decided four and

five years after Watkins, involved persons who were witnesses before the Un-
American Activities Committee either shortly prior to or shortly following Watkins’
appearance and who were cited for contempt before the Supreme Court decided Watkins.
     In Deutch v. United States, 367 U.S. 456 (1961), involving an otherwise coopera-
tive witness who had refused to identify certain persons with whom he had been
associated at Cornell in Communist Party activities, the Court agreed that Deutch
had refused on grounds of moral scruples to answer the questions and had not chal-
lenged them as not pertinent to the inquiry, but the majority ruled that the govern-
ment had failed to establish at trial the pertinency of the questions, thus vitiating
the conviction. Justices Frankfurter, Clark, Harlan, and Whittaker dissented, argu-
ing that any argument on pertinency had been waived but in any event thinking it
had been established. Id. at 472, 475.
     In Russell v. United States, 369 U.S. 749 (1962), the Court struck down con-
tempt convictions for insufficiency of the indictments. Indictments, which merely set
forth the offense in the words of the contempt statute, the Court asserted, in alleg-
ing that the unanswered questions were pertinent to the subject under inquiry but
not identifying the subject in detail, are defective because they do not inform defen-
dants what they must be prepared to meet and do not enable courts to decide whether
the facts alleged are sufficient to support convictions. Justice Stewart for the Court
noted that the indicia of subject matter under inquiry were varied and contradic-
tory, thus necessitating a precise governmental statement of particulars. Justices
Harlan and Clark in dissent contended that it was sufficient for the government to
establish pertinency at trial and noted that no objections relating to pertinency had
been made at the hearings. Id. at 781, 789–793. Russell was cited in the per curiam
reversals in Grumman v. United States, 370 U.S. 288 (1962), and Silber v. United
States, 370 U.S. 717 (1962).
     242 360 U.S. 109 (1959).
