           It has long been settled that the courts may not intervene di-
       rectly to restrain the carrying out of an investigation or the man-
       ner of an investigation, and that a witness who believes the in-
       quiry to be illegal or otherwise invalid in order to raise the issue
       must place himself in contempt and raise his beliefs as affirmative
       defenses on his criminal prosecution. This understanding was sharply
       reinforced when the Court held that the speech-or-debate clause ut-
       terly foreclosed judicial interference with the conduct of a congres-
       sional investigation, through review of the propriety of subpoenas
       or otherwise.278 It is only with regard to the trial of contempts that
       the courts may review the carrying out of congressional investiga-
       tions and may impose constitutional and other constraints.

    SECTION 2. Clause 1. The House of Representatives shall be
composed of Members chosen every second Year by the People
of the several States, and the Electors in each State shall have
the Qualifications requisite for Electors of the most numerous
Branch of the State Legislature.

                           CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICTING
           A major innovation in constitutional law in recent years has been
       the development of a requirement that election districts in each state
       be structured so that each elected representative represents sub-
       stantially equal populations.279 Although this requirement has gen-
       erally been gleaned from the Equal Protection Clause of the Four-
       teenth Amendment,280 in Wesberry v. Sanders,281 the Court held that
       “construed in its historical context, the command of Art. I, § 2, that
       Representatives be chosen ‘by the People of the several States’ means

           278  Eastland v. United States Servicemen’s Fund, 421 U.S. 491 (1975).
           279  The phrase “one person, one vote” might well seem to refer to election dis-
       tricts drawn to contain equal numbers of voters rather than equal numbers of per-
       sons. But it seems clear from a consideration of all the Court’s opinions and the
       results of its rulings that the statement in the text accurately reflects the constitu-
       tional requirement. The case expressly holding that total population, or the exclu-
       sion only of transients, is the standard is Burns v. Richardson, 384 U.S. 73 (1966), a
       legislative apportionment case. Notice that considerable population disparities exist
       from state to state, as a result of the requirement that each state receive at least
       one Member and the fact that state lines cannot be crossed in districting. At least
       under present circumstances, these disparities do not violate the Constitution. U.S.
       Department of Commerce v. Montana, 503 U.S. 442 (1992).
            280 Reynolds v. Sims, 377 U.S. 533 (1964) (legislative apportionment and district-

       ing); Hadley v. Junior College Dist., 397 U.S. 50 (1970) (local governmental units).
            281 376 U.S. 1 (1964). See also Martin v. Bush, 376 U.S. 222 (1964).
