in conjunction with the Rule establishing it, evinced clear investiga-
tory authority to inquire into Communist infiltration in the field of
education, an authority with which the witness had shown familiar-
ity. Additionally, the opening statement of the chairman had pin-
pointed that subject as the nature of the inquiry that day and the
opening witness had testified on the subject and had named Barenblatt
as a member of the Communist Party at the University of Michi-
gan. Thus, pertinency and the witness’ knowledge of the perti-
nency of the questions asked him was shown. Similarly, in Wilkinson
v. United States,243 the Court held that, when the witness was ap-
prised at the hearing that the Committee was empowered to inves-
tigate Communist infiltration of the textile industry in the South,
that it was gathering information with a view to ascertaining the
manner of administration and need to amend various laws directed
at subversive activities, that Congress hitherto had enacted many
of its recommendations in this field, and that it was possessed of
information about his Party membership, he was notified effec-
tively that a question about that affiliation was relevant to a valid
inquiry. A companion case was held to be controlled by Wilkinson,244
and in both cases the majority rejected the contention that the Com-
mittee inquiry was invalid because both Wilkinson and Braden, when
they were called, were engaged in organizing activities against the
Committee.245
    Related to the cases discussed in this section are cases requir-
ing that congressional committees observe strictly their own rules.
Thus, in Yellin v. United States,246 a contempt conviction was re-
versed because the Committee had failed to observe its rule provid-
ing for a closed session if a majority of the Committee believed that
a witness’ appearance in public session might unjustly injure his
reputation. The Court ruled that the Committee had ignored the

    243  365 U.S. 399 (1961).
    244  Braden v. United States, 365 U.S. 431 (1961).
     245 The majority denied that the witness’ participation in a lawful and protected

course of action, such as petitioning Congress to abolish the Committee, limited the
Committee’s right of inquiry. “[W]e cannot say that, simply because the petitioner
at the moment may have been engaged in lawful conduct, his Communist activities
in connection therewith could not be investigated. The subcommittee had reason-
able ground to suppose that the petitioner was an active Communist Party member,
and that as such he possessed information that would substantially aid it in its leg-
islative investigation. As Barenblatt makes clear, it is the nature of the Communist
activity involved, whether the momentary conduct is legitimate or illegitimate politi-
cally, that establishes the government’s overbalancing interest.” Wilkinson v. United
States, 365 U.S. 399, 414 (1961). In both cases, the dissenters, Chief Justice Warren
and Justices Black, Douglas, and Brennan argued that the Committee action was
invalid because it was intended to harass persons who had publicly criticized com-
mittee activities. Id. at 415, 423, 429.
     246 374 U.S. 109 (1963).
