       government, which the constitution does not delegate to them. . . .
       No state can say, that it has reserved, what it never pos-
       sessed.’ ” 346 The states could not before the founding have pos-
       sessed powers to legislate respecting the Federal Government, and,
       because the Constitution did not delegate to the states the power
       to prescribe qualifications for Members of Congress, the states did
       not have any such power.347
           Evidently, the opinions in this case reflect more than a decision
       on this particular dispute. They rather represent conflicting philoso-
       phies within the Court respecting the scope of national power in
       relation to the states, an issue at the core of many controversies
       today.

    Clause 3. [Representatives and direct Taxes shall be appor-
tioned among the several States which may be included within
this Union, according to their respective Numbers, which shall
be determined by adding to the whole Number of free Persons,
including those bound to Service for a Term of Years, and exclud-
ing Indians not taxed, three fifths of all other Persons].348 The
actual Enumeration shall be made within three Years after the
first Meeting of the Congress of the United States, and within
every subsequent Term of ten Years, in such Manner as they
shall by Law direct. The Number of Representatives shall not
exceed one for every thirty Thousand, but each State shall have
at Least one Representative; and until such enumeration shall
be made, the State of New Hampshire shall be entitled to chuse
three, Massachusetts eight, Rhode Island and Providence Plan-

           346  514 U.S. at 802.
           347  514 U.S. at 798–805. See also id. at 838–45 (Justice Kennedy concurring).
       The Court applied similar reasoning in Cook v. Gralike, 531 U.S. 510, 522–23 (2001),
       invalidating ballot labels identifying congressional candidates who had not pledged
       to support term limits. Because congressional offices arise from the Constitution, the
       Court explained, no authority to regulate these offices could have preceded the Con-
       stitution and been reserved to the states, and the ballot labels were not valid exer-
       cise of the power granted by Article I, § 4 to regulate the “manner” of holding elec-
       tions. See discussion under Legislation Protecting Electoral Process, infra.
            348 The part of this clause relating to the mode of apportionment of representa-

       tives among the several States was changed by the Fourteenth Amendment, § 2 and
       as to taxes on incomes without apportionment, by the Sixteenth Amendment.
