tations one, Connecticut, five, New York six, New Jersey four,
Pennsylvania eight, Delaware one, Maryland six, Virginia ten,
North Carolina five, South Carolina five, and Georgia three.
                 APPORTIONMENT OF SEATS IN THE HOUSE

       The Census Requirement
            The Census Clause “reflects several important constitutional de-
       terminations: that comparative state political power in the House
       would reflect comparative population, not comparative wealth; that
       comparative power would shift every 10 years to reflect population
       changes; that federal tax authority would rest upon the same base;
       and that Congress, not the states, would determine the manner of
       conducting the census.” 349 These determinations “all suggest a strong
       constitutional interest in accuracy.” 350
            The language employed—“actual enumeration”—requires an ac-
       tual count, but gives Congress wide discretion in determining the
       methodology of that count. The word “enumeration” refers to a count-
       ing process without describing the count’s methodological details.
       The word “actual” merely refers to the enumeration to be used for
       apportioning the Third Congress, and thereby distinguishes “a de-
       liberately taken count” from the conjectural approach that had been
       used for the First Congress. Finally, the conferral of authority on
       Congress to “direct” the “manner” of enumeration underscores “the
       breadth of congressional methodological authority.” Thus, the Court
       held in Utah v. Evans, “hot deck imputation,” a method used to fill
       in missing data by imputing to an address the number of persons
       found at a nearby address or unit of the same type, does not run
       afoul of the “actual enumeration” requirement.351 The Court distin-
       guished imputation from statistical sampling, and indicated that its
       holding was relatively narrow. Imputation was permissible “where
       all efforts have been made to reach every household, where the meth-
       ods used consist not of statistical sampling but of inference, where
       that inference involves a tiny percent of the population, where the
       alternative is to make a far less accurate assessment of the popula-
       tion, and where consequently manipulation of the method is highly
       unlikely.” 352
           349 Utah v. Evans, 536 U.S. 452, 476 (2002).
           350 Id.
           351 Utah v. Evans, 536 U.S. 452 (2002).
           352 See also Wisconsin v. City of New York, 517 U.S. 1 (1996), in which the Court

       held that the decision of the Secretary of Commerce not to conduct a post-
       enumeration survey and statistical adjustment for an undercount in the 1990 Cen-
       sus was reasonable and within the bounds of discretion conferred by the Constitu-
