clauses 341 establish exclusive qualifications for Members that may
not be added to either by Congress or the states.342 Six years later,
the Court relied on Thornton to invalidate a Missouri law requir-
ing that labels be placed on ballots alongside the names of congres-
sional candidates who had “disregarded voters’ instruction on term
limits” or declined to pledge support for term limits.343
    Both majority and dissenting opinions in Thornton were richly
embellished with disputatious arguments about the text of the Con-
stitution, the history of its drafting and ratification, and the prac-
tices of Congress and the states in the nation’s early years,344 and
these differences over text, creation, and practice derived from dis-
agreement about the fundamental principle underlying the Consti-
tution’s adoption.
    In the dissent’s view, the Constitution was the result of the reso-
lution of the peoples of the separate states to create the National
Government. The conclusion to be drawn from this was that the
peoples in the states agreed to surrender only those powers ex-
pressly forbidden them and those limited powers that they had del-
egated to the Federal Government expressly or by necessary impli-
cation. They retained all other powers and still retain them. Thus,
“[w]here the Constitution is silent about the exercise of a particu-
lar power—that is, where the Constitution does not speak either
expressly or by necessary implication—the Federal Government lacks
that power and the States enjoy it.” 345 The Constitution’s silence
as to authority to impose additional qualifications meant that this
power resides in the states.
    The majority’s views were radically different. After the adop-
tion of the Constitution, the states had two kinds of powers: re-
served powers that they had before the founding and that were not
surrendered to the Federal Government, and those powers del-
egated to them by the Constitution. It followed that the states could
have no reserved powers with respect to the Federal Government.
“As Justice Story recognized, ‘the states can exercise no powers what-
soever, which exclusively spring out of the existence of the national
    341 Article I, § 2, cl. 2, provides that a person may qualify as a Representative if

she is at least 25 years old, has been a United States citizen for at least 7 years,
and is an inhabitant, at the time of the election, of the state in which she is chosen.
The qualifications established for Senators, Article I, § 3, cl. 3, are an age of 30 years,
nine years’ citizenship, and being an inhabitant of the state at the time of election.
    342 The four-Justice dissent argued that while Congress has no power to in-

crease qualifications, the States do. 514 U.S. at 845.
    343 Cook v. Gralike, 531 U.S. 510 (2001).
    344 See Sullivan, Dueling Sovereignties: U.S. Term Limits, Inc. v. Thornton, 109

HARV. L. REV. 78 (1995).
    345 514 U.S. at 848 (Justice Thomas dissenting). See generally id. at 846–65.
