   Clause 6. The Senate shall have the sole Power to try all
Impeachments. When sitting for that Purpose, they shall be on
Oath or Affirmation. When the President of the United States
is tried, the Chief Justice shall preside: And no Person shall be
convicted without the Concurrence of two thirds of the Mem-
bers present.
    Clause 7. Judgment in Cases of Impeachment shall not ex-
tend further than to removal from Office, and disqualification
to hold and enjoy any Office of honor, Trust or Profit under the
United States; but the Party convicted shall nevertheless be li-
able and subject to Indictment, Trial, Judgment and Punish-
ment, according to Law.
                                 IN GENERAL
           See analysis of impeachment under Article II, sec. 4.

    SECTION 4. Clause 1. The Times, Places and Manner of hold-
ing Elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be pre-
scribed in each State by the Legislature thereof; but Congress
may at any time make or alter such Regulations, except as to
the Place of chusing Senators.
            LEGISLATION PROTECTING ELECTORAL PROCESS
            By its terms, Art. I, § 4, cl. 1 empowers both Congress and state
       legislatures to regulate the “times, places and manner of holding
       elections for Senators and Representatives.” Not until 1842, when
       it passed a law requiring the election of Representatives by dis-
       tricts,363 did Congress undertake to exercise this power. In subse-
       quent years, Congress expanded on the requirements, successively
       adding contiguity, compactness, and substantial equality of popula-
       tion to the districting requirements.364 However, no challenge to the
       seating of Members-elect selected in violation of these require-
           363 5 Stat. 491 (1842). The requirement was omitted in 1850, 9 Stat. 428, but

       was adopted again in 1862. 12 Stat. 572.
           364 The 1872 Act, 17 Stat. 28, provided that districts should contain “as nearly

       as practicable” equal numbers of inhabitants, a provision thereafter retained. In 1901,
       31 Stat. 733, a requirement that districts be composed of “compact territory” was
