       formance that they must be treated as the latter’s alter ego; and
       that if they are not so recognized, the central role of the Speech or
       Debate Clause . . . will inevitably be diminished and frus-
       trated.” 462 Therefore, the Court held “that the Speech or Debate Clause
       applies not only to a Member but also to his aides insofar as the
       conduct of the latter would be a protected legislative act if per-
       formed by the Member himself.” 463
            The Gravel holding, however, does not so much extend congres-
       sional immunity to employees as it narrows the actual immunity
       available to both aides and Members in some important respects.
       Thus, the Court said, the legislators in Kilbourn were immune be-
       cause adoption of the resolution was clearly a legislative act but
       the execution of the resolution—the arrest and detention—was not
       a legislative act immune from liability, so that the House officer was
       in fact liable as would have been any Member who had executed
       it.464 Dombrowski was interpreted as having held that no evidence
       implicated the Senator involved, whereas the committee counsel had
       been accused of “conspiring to violate the constitutional rights of
       private parties. Unlawful conduct of this kind the Speech or De-
       bate Clause simply did not immunize.” 465 And Powell was inter-
       preted as simply holding that voting to exclude plaintiff, which was
       all the House defendants had done, was a legislative act immune
       from Member liability but not from judicial inquiry. “None of these
       three cases adopted the simple proposition that immunity was un-
       available to House or committee employees because they were not
       Representatives or Senators; rather, immunity was unavailable be-
       cause they engaged in illegal conduct that was not entitled to Speech
       or Debate Clause protection. . . . [N]o prior case has held that Mem-
       bers of Congress would be immune if they executed an invalid reso-
       lution by themselves carrying out an illegal arrest, or if, in order
       to secure information for a hearing, themselves seized the property
       or invaded the privacy of a citizen. Neither they nor their aides should
       be immune from liability or questioning in such circumstances.” 466

   Clause 2. No Senator or Representative shall, during the
Time for which he was elected, be appointed to any civil Office
under the Authority of the United States, which shall have been
created, or the Emoluments whereof shall have been increased
          462 408   U.S.   at   616–17.
          463 408   U.S.   at   618.
          464 408   U.S.   at   618–19.
          465 408   U.S.   at   619–20.
          466 408   U.S.   at   620–21.
