a bank, to obtain the financial records of the suing organization.
The investigation was a proper exercise of Congress’s power of in-
quiry, the subpoena was a legitimate part of the inquiry, and the
clause therefore was an absolute bar to judicial review of the sub-
committee’s actions prior to the possible institution of contempt ac-
tions in the courts.442 And in Dombrowski v. Eastland,443 the Court
affirmed the dismissal of an action against the chairman of a Sen-
ate committee brought on allegations that he wrongfully conspired
with state officials to violate the civil rights of plaintiff.
    Through an inquiry into the nature of the “legislative acts” per-
formed by Members and staff, the Court held that the clause did
not defeat a suit to enjoin the public dissemination of legislative
materials outside the halls of Congress.444 A committee had con-
ducted an authorized investigation into conditions in the schools of
the District of Columbia and had issued a report that the House of
Representatives routinely ordered printed. In the report, named stu-
dents were dealt with in an allegedly defamatory manner, and their
parents sued various committee Members and staff and other per-
sonnel, including the Superintendent of Documents and the Public
Printer, seeking to restrain further publication, dissemination, and
distribution of the report until the objectionable material was de-
leted and also seeking damages. The Court held that the Members
of Congress and the staff employees had been properly dismissed
from the suit, inasmuch as their actions—conducting the hearings,
preparing the report, and authorizing its publication—were pro-
tected by the clause. The Superintendent of Documents and the Pub-
lic Printer were held, however, to have been properly named, be-
cause, as congressional employees, they had no broader immunity
than Members of Congress would have. At this point, the Court dis-
tinguished between those legislative acts, such as voting, speaking
on the floor or in committee, issuing reports, which are within the
protection of the clause, and those acts which enjoy no such protec-
tion. Public dissemination of materials outside the halls of Con-
gress is not protected, the Court held, because it is unnecessary to
the performance of official legislative actions. Dissemination of the


    442 Eastland v. United States Servicemen’s Fund, 421 U.S. 491 (1975).
    443 387 U.S. 82 (1967). But see the reinterpretation of this case in Gravel v. United
States, 408 U.S. 606, 619–20 (1972). See also McSurely v. McClellan, 553 F.2d 1277
(D.C. Cir. 1976) (en banc), cert. dismissed as improvidently granted, sub nom. McAdams
v. McSurely, 438 U.S. 189 (1978).
    444 Doe v. McMillan, 412 U.S. 306 (1973).
