was this examination into the context of the speech—its author-
ship, motivation, and content—that the Court found foreclosed by
the Speech or Debate Clause.450
     However, in United States v. Brewster,451 while continuing to
assert that the clause “must be read broadly to effectuate its pur-
pose of protecting the independence of the Legislative branch,” 452
the Court substantially reduced the scope of the coverage of the clause.
In upholding the validity of an indictment of a Member, which charged
that he accepted a bribe to be “influenced in his performance of of-
ficial acts in respect to his action, vote, and decision” on legisla-
tion, the Court drew a distinction between a prosecution that caused
an inquiry into legislative acts or the motivation for performance
of such acts and a prosecution for taking or agreeing to take money
for a promise to act in a certain way. The former is proscribed, the
latter is not. “Taking a bribe is, obviously, no part of the legislative
process or function; it is not a legislative act. It is not, by any con-
ceivable interpretation, an act performed as a part of or even inci-
dental to the role of a legislator. . . . Nor is inquiry into a legisla-
tive act or the motivation for a legislative act necessary to a prosecution
under this statute or this indictment. When a bribe is taken, it does
not matter whether the promise for which the bribe was given was
for the performance of a legislative act as here or, as in Johnson,
for use of a Congressman’s influence with the Executive Branch.” 453
In other words, it is the fact of having taken a bribe, not the act
the bribe is intended to influence, which is the subject of the pros-
ecution, and the Speech or Debate Clause interposes no obstacle to
this type of prosecution.454
     Applying in the criminal context the distinction developed in the
civil cases between protected “legislative activity” and unprotected
conduct prior to or subsequent to engaging in “legislative activity,”
     450 Reserved was the question whether a prosecution that entailed inquiry into

legislative acts or motivation could be founded upon “a narrowly drawn statute passed
by Congress in the exercise of its legislative power to regulate the conduct of its
members.” 383 U.S. at 185. The question was similarly reserved in United States v.
Brewster, 408 U.S. 501, 529 n.18 (1972), although Justices Brennan and Douglas
would have answered in the negative. Id. at 529, 540.
     451 408 U.S. 501 (1972).
     452 408 U.S. at 516.
     453 408 U.S. at 526.
     454 The holding was reaffirmed in United States v. Helstoski, 442 U.S. 477 (1979).

On the other hand, the Court did hold that the protection of the clause is so funda-
mental that, assuming a Member may waive it, a waiver could be found only after
explicit and unequivocal renunciation, rather than by failure to assert it at any par-
ticular point. Similarly, Helstoski v. Meanor, 442 U.S. 500 (1979), held that since
the clause properly applied is intended to protect a Member from even having to
defend himself, he may appeal immediately from a judicial ruling of nonapplicabil-
ity rather than wait to appeal after conviction.
