                     LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT


                                     ARTICLE I

     SECTION 1. All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested
in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Sen-
ate and House of Representatives.
                  SEPARATION OF POWERS AND CHECKS AND
                                BALANCES

        Theory and Implementation
            The Constitution grants three broad powers—legislative, execu-
        tive and judicial—but it does not contain an express requirement
        that the boundaries between these powers be preserved; nor does
        it expressly mandate a requirement for a system of checks and bal-
        ances. Yet, the three powers are expressly granted to three sepa-
        rate branches, and the Constitution provides throughout the means
        by which each of the branches can resist the blandishments and
        incursions of the others. The Framers drew up our basic charter of
        government against a background rich in the theorizing of scholars
        and statesmen. The goal of these thinkers, and of the Founders,
        was to establish a governmental system which confers sufficient power
        to govern while withholding the ability to abridge liberties.1
            When the colonies separated from Great Britain following the
        Revolution, the framers of their constitutions were imbued with the
        profound tradition of separation of powers, and they freely and ex-
        pressly embodied the principle in their charters.2 Because of the
        colonial experience with royal governors and judges representing the
        interests of the British Crown, however, the theory of checks and
        balances on legislatures was less favored. As a consequence, viola-
            1 Among the best historical treatments are M. VILE, CONSTITUTIONALISM AND THE SEPA-
        RATION OF POWERS (1967), and W. GWYN, THE   MEANING OF THE SEPARATION OF POWERS (1965).
             2 Thus the Constitution of Virginia of 1776 provided: “The legislative, executive,
        and judiciary department shall be separate and distinct, so that neither exercise
        the powers properly belonging to the other; nor shall any person exercise the pow-
        ers of more than one of them, at the same time[.]” Reprinted in 10 SOURCES AND DOCU-
        MENTS OF UNITED STATES CONSTITUTIONS 52 (W. S. Windler ed., 1979). See also 5 id. at
        96. Art. XXX of Part First, Massachusetts Constitution of 1780 provided that: “In
        the government of this commonwealth, the legislative department shall never exer-
        cise the executive and judicial powers, or either of them; the executive shall never
        exercise the legislative and judicial powers, or either of them; the judicial shall never
        exercise the legislative and executive powers, or either of them; to the end it may
        be a government of laws, and not of men.”
