whether Congress could by statute authorize a form of the line-
item veto, but, again, nothing passed.495
    That the interpretation of the provisions has not been entirely
consistent is evident from a review of the only two Supreme Court
decisions construing them. In The Pocket Veto Case,496 the Court
held that the return of a bill to the Senate, where it originated,
had been prevented when the Congress adjourned its first session
sine die fewer than ten days after presenting the bill to the Presi-
dent. The word “adjournment” was seen to have been used in the
Constitution not in the sense of final adjournments but to any occa-
sion on which a house of Congress is not in session. “We think that
under the constitutional provision the determinative question in ref-
erence to an ‘adjournment’ is not whether it is a final adjournment
of Congress or an interim adjournment, such as an adjournment of
the first session, but whether it is one that ‘prevents’ the President
from returning the bill to the House in which it originated within
the time allowed.” 497 Because neither House was in session to re-
ceive the bill, the President was prevented from returning it. It had
been argued to the Court that the return may be validly accom-
plished to a proper agent of the house of origin for consideration
when that body convenes. After first noting that Congress had never
authorized an agent to receive bills during adjournment, the Court
opined that “delivery of the bill to such officer or agent, even if au-
thorized by Congress itself, would not comply with the constitu-
tional mandate.” 498
    However, in Wright v. United States,499 the Court held that the
President’s return of a bill to the Secretary of the Senate on the
tenth day after presentment, during a three-day adjournment by
the originating House only, was an effective return. In the first place,
the Court thought, the pocket veto clause referred only to an ad-
journment of “the Congress,” and here only the Senate, the originat-
ing body, had adjourned. The President can return the bill to the
originating House if that body be in an intrasession adjournment,
because there is no “practical difficulty” in effectuating the return.
    495 See Line Item Veto: Hearing Before the Senate Committee on Rules and Ad-

ministration, 99th Cong., 1st sess. (1985), esp. 10–20 (CRS memoranda detailing the
issues). Some publicists have even contended, through a strained interpretation of
clause 3, actually from its intended purpose to prevent Congress from subverting
the veto power by calling a bill by some other name, that the President already
possesses the line-item veto, but no President could be brought to test the thesis.
See Pork Barrels and Principles: The Politics of the Presidential Veto (National Le-
gal Center for the Public Interest, 1988) (essays).
    496 279 U.S. 655 (1929).
    497 279 U.S. at 680.
    498 279 U.S. at 684.
    499 302 U.S. 583 (1938).
