with military activities, the Court noted that its use was not lim-
ited to those contexts.14 Further, the Court found that the phrase
“well regulated Militia” referred not to formally organized state or
federal militias, but to the pool of “able-bodied men” who were avail-
able for conscription.15 Finally, the Court reviewed contemporane-
ous state constitutions, post-enactment commentary, and subse-
quent case law to conclude that the purpose of the right to keep
and bear arms extended beyond the context of militia service to in-
clude self-defense.
     Using this “individual rights theory,” the Court struck down a
District of Columbia law that banned virtually all handguns, and
required that any other type of firearm in a home be dissembled or
bound by a trigger lock at all times. The Court rejected the argu-
ment that handguns could be banned as long as other guns (such
as long-guns) were available, noting that, for a variety of reasons,
handguns are the “most popular weapon chosen by Americans for
self-defense in the home.” 16 Similarly, the requirement that all fire-
arms be rendered inoperable at all times was found to limit the
“core lawful purpose of self-defense.” However, the Court specifi-
cally stated (albeit in dicta) that the Second Amendment did not
limit prohibitions on the possession of firearms by felons and the
mentally ill, penalties for carrying firearms in schools and govern-
ment buildings, or laws regulating the sales of guns. The Court also
noted that there was a historical tradition of prohibiting the carry-
ing of “dangerous and unusual weapons” that would not be affected
by its decision. The Court, however, declined to establish the stan-
dard by which future gun regulations would be evaluated.17 And,
more importantly, because the District of Columbia is a federal en-
clave, the Court did not have occasion to address whether it would
reconsider its prior decisions that the Second Amendment does not
apply to the states.
    The latter issue was addressed in McDonald v. Chicago,18 where
a plurality of the Court, overturning prior precedent, found that the
Second Amendment is incorporated through the Fourteenth Amend-

    14 128 S. Ct. at 2791–97.
    15 128 S. Ct. at 2799–2800. Similarly, the phrase “security of a free state” was
found to refer not to the defense of a particular state, but to the protection of the
national polity. 128 S. Ct. at 2800–01.
    16 128 S. Ct. at 2818.
    17 128 S. Ct. at 2817 n.27 (discussing non-application of rational basis review).

See id. at 2850–51 (Breyer, J., dissenting).
    18 561 U.S. ___, No. 08–1521, slip op. (2010).
