no effect whatsoever. Moreover, a judicial construction that this fun-
damental right is not protected by the Constitution because it is
not mentioned in explicit terms by one of the first eight amend-
ments or elsewhere in the Constitution would violate the Ninth Amend-
ment. . . . Nor do I mean to state that the Ninth Amendment con-
stitutes an independent source of right protected from infringement
by either the States or the Federal Government. Rather, the Ninth
Amendment shows a belief of the Constitution’s authors that funda-
mental rights exist that are not expressly enumerated in the first
eight amendments and an intent that the list of rights included there
not be deemed exhaustive.” 7
    Therefore, although neither Douglas’ nor Goldberg’s opinion sought
to make the Ninth Amendment a substantive source of constitu-
tional guarantees, both read it as indicating a function of the courts
to interpose a veto over legislative and executive efforts to abridge
other fundamental rights. Both opinions seemed to concur that the
fundamental right claimed and upheld was derivative of several ex-
press rights and, in this case, really, the Ninth Amendment added
almost nothing to the argument. But, if there is a claim of a funda-
mental right that cannot reasonably be derived from one of the pro-
visions of the Bill of Rights, even with the Ninth Amendment, how
is the Court to determine, first, that it is fundamental, and second,
that it is protected from abridgment? 8


     7 381 U.S. at 488, 491, 492. Chief Justice Warren and Justice Brennan joined

this opinion. Justices Harlan and White concurred, id. at 499, 502, without alluding
to the Ninth Amendment, but instead basing their conclusions on substantive due
process, finding that the state statute “violates basic values implicit in the concept
of ordered liberty” (citing Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U.S. 319, 325 (1937)). Id. at 500.
It appears that the source of the fundamental rights to which Justices Douglas and
Goldberg referred must be found in a concept of substantive due process, despite
the former’s express rejection of this ground. Id. at 481–82. Justices Black and Stew-
art dissented. Justice Black viewed the Ninth Amendment ground as essentially a
variation of the due process argument under which Justices claimed the right to
void legislation as irrational, unreasonable, or offensive, without finding any viola-
tion of an express constitutional provision.
     8 As Justice Scalia observed, “the [Ninth Amendment’s] refusal to ‘deny or dis-

parage’ other rights is far removed from affirming any one of them, and even fur-
ther removed from authorizing judges to identify what they might be, and to en-
force the judges’ list against laws duly enacted by the people.” Troxel v. Granville,
530 U.S. 57, 91 (2000) (dissenting from recognition of due-process-derived parental
right to direct the upbringing of their children).
     Notice the recurrence to the Ninth Amendment as a “constitutional ‘saving clause’ ”
in Chief Justice Burger’s plurality opinion in Richmond Newspapers v. Virginia, 448
U.S. 555, 579–80 & n.15 (1980). Scholarly efforts to establish the clause as a sub-
stantive protection of rights include J. ELY, DEMOCRACY AND DISTRUST: A THEORY OF JUDI-
CIAL REVIEW 34–41 (1980); and C. BLACK, DECISION ACCORDING TO LAW (1981), critically
