                         UNENUMERATED RIGHTS


                             NINTH AMENDMENT
    The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall
not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the
people.

                          RIGHTS RETAINED BY THE PEOPLE
               The Federalists contended that a bill of rights was unneces-
          sary. They responded to those opposing ratification of the Constitu-
          tion because of the lack of a declaration of fundamental rights by
          arguing that, inasmuch as it would be impossible to list all rights,
          it would be dangerous to list some and thereby lend support to the
          argument that government was unrestrained as to those rights not
          listed.1 Madison adverted to this argument in presenting his pro-
          posed amendments to the House of Representatives. “It has been
          objected also against a bill of rights, that, by enumerating particu-
          lar exceptions to the grant of power, it would disparage those rights
          which were not placed in that enumeration; and it might follow by
          implication, that those rights which were not singled out, were in-
          tended to be assigned into the hands of the General Government,
          and were consequently insecure. This is one of the most plausible
          arguments I have ever heard against the admission of a bill of rights
          into this system; but, I conceive, that it may be guarded against. I
          have attempted it, as gentlemen may see by turning to the last clause
          of the fourth resolution.” 2 It is clear from its text and from Madi-
          son’s statement that the Amendment states but a rule of construc-
          tion, making clear that a Bill of Rights might not by implication be
          taken to increase the powers of the national government in areas
          not enumerated, and that it does not contain within itself any guar-
              1  THE FEDERALIST No. 84 (Modern Library ed. 1937).
              2  1 ANNALS OF CONGRESS 439 (1789). Earlier, Madison had written to Jefferson:
          “My own opinion has always been in favor of a bill of rights; provided it be so framed
          as not to imply powers not meant to be included in the enumeration. . . . I have
          not viewed it in an important light—1. because I conceive that in a certain degree
          . . . the rights in question are reserved by the manner in which the federal powers
          are granted. 2. because there is great reason to fear that a positive declaration of
          some of the most essential rights could not be obtained in the requisite latitude. I
          am sure that the rights of conscience in particular, if submitted to public definition
          would be narrowed much more than they are likely ever to be by an assumed power.”
          5 WRITINGS OF JAMES MADISON, 271–72 (G. Hunt ed., 1904). See also 3 J. STORY, COMMEN-
          TARIES ON THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 1898 (1833).
