antee of a right or a proscription of an infringement.3 In 1965, how-
ever, the Amendment was construed to be positive affirmation of
the existence of rights which are not enumerated but which are none-
theless protected by other provisions.
     The Ninth Amendment had been mentioned infrequently in de-
cisions of the Supreme Court 4 until it became the subject of some
exegesis by several of the Justices in Griswold v. Connecticut.5 The
Court in that case voided a statute prohibiting use of contracep-
tives as an infringement of the right of marital privacy. Justice Doug-
las, writing for the Court, asserted that the “specific guarantees in
the Bill of Rights have penumbras, formed by emanations from those
guarantees that help give them life and substance.” 6 Thus, al-
though privacy is not mentioned in the Constitution, it is one of
the values served and protected by the First Amendment through
its protection of associational rights, and by the Third, the Fourth,
and the Fifth Amendments as well. The Justice recurred to the text
of the Ninth Amendment, apparently to support the thought that
these penumbral rights are protected by one Amendment or a com-
plex of Amendments despite the absence of a specific reference. Jus-
tice Goldberg, concurring, devoted several pages to the Amend-
ment.
    “The language and history of the Ninth Amendment reveal that
the Framers of the Constitution believed that there are additional
fundamental rights, protected from governmental infringement, which
exist alongside those fundamental rights specifically mentioned in
the first eight constitutional amendments. . . . To hold that a right
so basic and fundamental and so deep-rooted in our society as the
right of privacy in marriage may be infringed because that right is
not guaranteed in so many words by the first eight amendments to
the Constitution is to ignore the Ninth Amendment and to give it
     3 To some extent, the Ninth and Tenth Amendments overlap with respect to the

question of unenumerated powers, one of the two concerns expressed by Madison,
more clearly in his letter to Jefferson but also in his introductory speech.
     4 In United Public Workers v. Mitchell, 330 U.S. 75, 94–95 (1947), upholding

the Hatch Act, the Court said: “We accept appellant’s contention that the nature of
political rights reserved to the people by the Ninth and Tenth Amendments [is] in-
volved. The right claimed as inviolate may be stated as the right of a citizen to act
as a party official or worker to further his own political views. Thus we have a mea-
sure of interference by the Hatch Act and the Rules with what otherwise would be
the freedom of the civil servant under the First, Ninth, and Tenth Amendments.”
See Ashwander v. TVA, 297 U.S. 288, 300–11 (1936), and Tennessee Electric Power
Co. v. TVA, 306 U.S. 118, 143–44 (1939). See also Justice Chase’s opinion in Calder
v. Bull, 3 U.S. (3 Dall.) 386, 388 (1798), and Justice Miller for the Court in Loan
Ass’n v. Topeka, 87 U.S. (20 Wall.) 655, 662–63 (1875).
     5 381 U.S. 479 (1965).
     6 381 U.S. at 484. The opinion was joined by Chief Justice Warren and by Jus-

tices Clark, Goldberg, and Brennan.
