appointed under the Appointments Clause.570 Myers actually struck
down only a law involving the Senate in the removal of postmas-
ters, but the broad-ranging opinion had long stood for the proposi-
tion that inherent in the President’s obligation to see to the faith-
ful execution of the laws was his right to remove any executive officer
as a means of discipline. Humphrey’s Executor had qualified this
proposition by upholding “for cause” removal restrictions for mem-
bers of independent regulatory agencies, at least in part on the as-
sertion that they exercised “quasi-” legislative and adjudicative func-
tions as well as some form of executive function. Maintaining the
holding of the latter case was essential to retaining the indepen-
dent agencies, but the emphasis upon the execution of the laws as
a core executive function in recent cases had cast considerable doubt
on the continuing validity of Humphrey’s Executor.
    In Bowsher v. Synar,571 the Court held that when Congress it-
self retains the power to remove an official it could not vest him
with the exercise of executive power. Invalidated in Synar were pro-
visions of the 1985 “Gramm-Rudman-Hollings” Deficit Control Act 572
vesting in the Comptroller General authority to prepare a detailed
report on projected federal revenue and expenditures and to deter-
mine mandatory across-the-board cuts in federal expenditures nec-
essary to reduce the projected budget deficit by statutory targets.
By a 1921 statute, the Comptroller General was removable by joint
congressional resolution for, inter alia, “inefficiency,” “neglect of duty,”
or “malfeasance.” “These terms are very broad,” the Court noted,
and “could sustain removal of a Comptroller General for any num-
ber of actual or perceived transgressions of the legislative will.” Con-
sequently, the Court determined, “the removal powers over the Comp-
troller General’s office dictate that he will be subservient to
Congress.” 573

     570 Bowsher v. Synar, 478 U.S. 714 (1986); Morrison v. Olson, 487 U.S. 654 (1988).

This is not to say that the language and analytical approach of Synar are not in
conflict with that of Morrison; it is to say that the results are consistent and the
analytical basis of the latter case does resolve the ambiguity present in some of the
reservations in Synar.
     571 478 U.S. 714 (1986).
     572 The Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, Pub. L.

99–177, 99 Stat. 1038.
     573 478 U.S. at 729, 730. “By placing the responsibility for execution of the . . .

Act in the hands of an officer who is subject to removal only by itself, Congress in
effect has retained control over the execution of the Act and has intruded into the
executive function.” Id. at 734. Because the Act contained contingency procedures
for implementing the budget reductions in the event that the primary mechanism
was invalidated, the Court rejected the suggestion that it should invalidate the 1921
removal provision rather than the Deficit Act’s conferral of executive power in the
Comptroller General. To do so would frustrate congressional intention and signifi-
cantly alter the Comptroller General’s office. Id. at 734–36.
