a number of “weak” Presidents and the temporary ascendancy of
Congress in the wake of the Civil War has not stemmed. Perhaps
the point of no return in this area was reached in 1801 when the
Jefferson-Madison “strict constructionists” came to power and, in-
stead of diminishing executive power and federal power in general,
acted rather to enlarge both, notably by the latitudinarian construc-
tion of implied federal powers to justify the Louisiana Purchase.41
After a brief lapse into Cabinet government, the executive in the
hands of Andrew Jackson stamped upon the presidency the outstand-
ing features of its final character, thereby reviving, in the opinion
of Henry Jones Ford, “the oldest political institution of the race,
the elective Kingship.” 42 Although the modern theory of presiden-
tial power was conceived primarily by Alexander Hamilton, the mod-
ern conception of the presidential office was the contribution primar-
ily of Andrew Jackson.43

Executive Power: Separation-of-Powers Judicial Protection
    In recent cases, the Supreme Court has pronouncedly protected
the Executive Branch, applying separation-of-powers principles to
invalidate what it perceived to be congressional usurpation of execu-
tive power, but its mode of analysis has lately shifted to permit Con-
gress a greater degree of discretion.44
    Significant change in the position of the Executive Branch re-
specting its position on separation of powers may be discerned in
two briefs of the Department of Justice’s Office of Legal Counsel,
which may spell some measure of judicial modification of the for-
malist doctrine of separation and adoption of the functionalist ap-
proach to the doctrine.45 The two opinions withdraw from the De-
    41 For the debates on the constitutionality of the Purchase, see E. BROWN, THE

CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY OF THE LOUISIANA PURCHASE, 1803–1812 (1920). The differences
and similarities between the Jeffersonians and the Federalists can be seen by com-
paring L. WHITE, THE JEFFERSONIANS: A STUDY IN ADMINISTRATIVE HISTORY 1801–1829 (1951),
with L. WHITE, THE FEDERALISTS: A STUDY IN ADMINISTRATIVE HISTORY (1948). That the re-
sponsibilities of office did not turn the Jeffersonians into Hamiltonians may be gleaned
from Madison’s veto of an internal improvements bill. 2 MESSAGES AND PAPERS OF THE
PRESIDENTS 569 (J. Richardson comp., 1897).
    42 H. FORD, THE RISE AND GROWTH OF AMERICAN POLITICS 293 (1898).
    43 E. CORWIN, THE PRESIDENT: OFFICE AND POWERS 1787–1957, ch. 1 (4th ed. 1957).
    44 Some cases also did so prior to the present period. See Myers v. United States,

272 U.S. 52 (1926). But a hallmark of previous disputes between President and Con-
gress has been the use of political combat to resolve them, rather than a resort to
the courts. The beginning of the present period was Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U.S. 1,
109–43 (1976).
    45 Memorandum for John Schmidt, Associate Attorney General, from Assistant

Attorney General Walter Dellinger, re: Constitutional Limitations on Federal Gov-
ernment Participation in Binding Arbitration (Sept. 7, 1995); Memorandum for the
General Counsels of the Federal Government, from Assistant Attorney General Wal-
ter Dellinger, re: The Constitutional Separation of Powers Between the President
