ing that the President was not reachable by judicial process but which
more fully paraded the horrible consequences were the Court to act.
First noting the limited meaning of the term “ministerial,” the Court
observed that “[v]ery different is the duty of the President in the
exercise of the power to see that the laws are faithfully executed,
and among these laws the acts named in the bill. . . . The duty
thus imposed on the President is in no just sense ministerial. It is
purely executive and political.”
   “An attempt on the part of the judicial department of the gov-
ernment to enforce the performance of such duties by the Presi-
dent might be justly characterized, in the language of Chief Justice
Marshall, as ‘an absurd and excessive extravagance.’ ”
    “It is true that in the instance before us the interposition of
the court is not sought to enforce action by the Executive under
constitutional legislation, but to restrain such action under legisla-
tion alleged to be unconstitutional. But we are unable to perceive
that this circumstance takes the case out of the general principles
which forbid judicial interference with the exercise of Executive dis-
cretion.” . . .
    “The Congress is the legislative department of the government;
the President is the executive department. Neither can be re-
strained in its action by the judicial department; though the acts of
both, when performed, are, in proper cases, subject to its cogni-
zance.”
    “The impropriety of such interference will be clearly seen upon
consideration of its possible consequences.”
    “Suppose the bill filed and the injunction prayed for allowed. If
the President refuse obedience, it is needless to observe that the
court is without power to enforce its process. If, on the other hand,
the President complies with the order of the court and refuses to
execute the acts of Congress, is it not clear that a collision may
occur between the executive and legislative departments of the gov-
ernment? May not the House of Representatives impeach the Presi-
dent for such refusal? And in that case could this court interfere,
in behalf of the President, thus endangered by compliance with its
mandate, and restrain by injunction the Senate of the United States
from sitting as a court of impeachment? Would the strange spec-
tacle be offered to the public world of an attempt by this court to
arrest proceedings in that court?” 784
    784 71 U.S. at 499, 500–01. One must be aware that the case was decided in the

context of congressional predominance following the Civil War. The Court’s restraint
was pronounced when it denied an effort to file a bill of injunction to enjoin enforce-
ment of the same acts directed to cabinet officers. Georgia v. Stanton, 73 U.S. (6
