with interstate commerce. The question before the Supreme Court
was whether this injunction, for violation of which Debs had been
jailed for contempt of court, had been granted with jurisdiction. Con-
ceding, in effect, that there was no statutory warrant for the injunc-
tion, the Court nevertheless validated it on the ground that the gov-
ernment was entitled thus to protect its property in the mails, and
on a much broader ground which is stated in the following passage
of Justice Brewer’s opinion for the Court: “Every government, en-
trusted, by the very terms of its being, with powers and duties to
be exercised and discharged for the general welfare, has a right to
apply to its own courts for any proper assistance in the exercise of
the one and the discharge of the other. . . . While it is not the prov-
ince of the government to interfere in any mere matter of private
controversy between individuals, or to use its granted powers to en-
force the rights of one against another, yet, whenever the wrongs
complained of are such as affect the public at large, and are in re-
spect of matters which by the Constitution are entrusted to the care
of the Nation and concerning which the Nation owes the duty to
all the citizens of securing to them their common rights, then the
mere fact that the government has no pecuniary interest in the con-
troversy is not sufficient to exclude it from the courts, or prevent it
from taking measures therein to fully discharge those constitu-
tional duties.” 732
    Present Status of the Debs Case.—Insofar as the use of in-
junctive relief in labor disputes is concerned, enactment of the Norris-
LaGuardia Act 733 placed substantial restrictions on the power of fed-
eral courts to issue injunctions in such situations. Though, in United
States v. UMW,734 the Court held that the Norris-LaGuardia Act
did not apply where the government brought suit as operator of mines,
language in the opinion appeared to go a good way toward repudi-
ating the present viability of Debs, though more in terms of congres-

     732 158 U.S., 584, 586. Some years earlier, in United States v. San Jacinto Tin

Co., 125 U.S. 273, 279 (1888), the Court sustained the right of the Attorney General
and his assistants to institute suits simply by virtue of their general official powers.
“If,” the Court said, “the United States in any particular case has a just cause for
calling upon the judiciary of the country, in any of its courts, for relief . . . the ques-
tion of appealing to them must primarily be decided by the Attorney General . . .
and if restrictions are to be placed upon the exercise of this authority it is for Con-
gress to enact them.” Cf. Hayburn’s Case, 2 U.S. (2 Dall.) 409 (1792), in which the
Court rejected Attorney General Randolph’s contention that he had the right ex offi-
cio to move for a writ of mandamus ordering the United States circuit court for Penn-
sylvania to put the Invalid Pension Act into effect.
     733 47 Stat. 170 (1932), 29 U.S.C. §§ 101–115.
     734 330 U.S. 258 (1947). In reaching the result, Chief Justice Vinson invoked

the “rule that statutes which in general terms divest preexisting rights or privileges
will not be applied to the sovereign without express words to that effect.” Id. at 272.
