other words, just as there are fields which are peculiar to Congress
and fields which are peculiar to the Executive, so there are fields
which are common to both, in the sense that the Executive may
move within them until they shall have been occupied by legisla-
tive action. These are not the fields of legislative prerogative, but
fields within which the lawmaking power may enter and dominate
whenever it chooses. This situation results from the fact that the
President is the active agent, not of Congress, but of the Nation.
As such he performs the duties which the Constitution lays upon
him immediately, and as such, also, he executes the laws and regu-
lations adopted by Congress. He is the agent of the people of the
United States, deriving all his powers from them and responsible
directly to them. In no sense is he the agent of Congress. He obeys
and executes the laws of Congress, not because Congress is en-
throned in authority over him, but because the Constitution directs
him to do so.”
    “Therefore it follows that in ways short of making laws or dis-
obeying them, the Executive may be under a grave constitutional
duty to act for the national protection in situations not covered by
the acts of Congress, and in which, even, it may not be said that
his action is the direct expression of any particular one of the inde-
pendent powers which are granted to him specifically by the Consti-
tution. Instances wherein the President has felt and fulfilled such
a duty have not been rare in our history, though, being for the pub-
lic benefit and approved by all, his acts have seldom been chal-
lenged in the courts.” 771

Power Denied by Congress
     Justice Black’s opinion of the Court in Youngstown Sheet and
Tube Co. v. Sawyer notes that Congress had refused to give the Presi-
dent seizure authority and had authorized other actions, which had
not been taken.772 This statement led him to conclude merely that,
since the power claimed did not stem from Congress, it had to be
found in the Constitution. But four of the concurring Justices made
considerably more of the fact that Congress had considered seizure
and had refused to authorize it. Justice Frankfurter stated: “We must
. . . put to one side consideration of what powers the President would
have had if there had been no legislation whatever bearing on the
authority asserted by the seizure, or if the seizure had been only
for a short, explicitly temporary period, to be terminated automati-

    771 Quoted in Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U.S. 579, 689–91

(1952) (dissenting opinion).
    772 343 U.S. at 585–87.
