    Doctrinally, the distinction is important and subject to unfortu-
nate application.65 Whether the brief, unilluminating discussion in
Dalton will bear fruit in constitutional jurisprudence, however, is
problematic.

                                       TENURE
     Formerly, the term of four years during which the President “shall
hold office” was reckoned from March 4 of the alternate odd years
beginning with 1789. This came about from the circumstance that
under the act of September 13, 1788, of “the Old Congress,” the
first Wednesday in March, which was March 4, 1789, was fixed as
the time for commencing proceedings under the Constitution. Al-
though as a matter of fact Washington was not inaugurated until
April 30 of that year, by an act approved March 1, 1792, it was
provided that the presidential term should be reckoned from the
fourth day of March next succeeding the date of election. And so
things stood until the adoption of the Twentieth Amendment, by
which the terms of President and Vice-President end at noon on
the 20th of January.66
     The prevailing sentiment of the Philadelphia Convention fa-
vored the indefinite eligibility of the President. It was Jefferson who
raised the objection that indefinite eligibility would in fact be for
life and degenerate into an inheritance. Prior to 1940, the idea that
no President should hold office for more than two terms was gener-
ally thought to be a fixed tradition, although some quibbles had been
raised as to the meaning of the word “term.” The voters’ departure
from the tradition in electing President Franklin D. Roosevelt to
third and fourth terms led to the proposal by Congress on March
24, 1947, of an amendment to the Constitution to embody the tra-
dition in the Constitutional Document. The proposal became a part
of the Constitution on February 27, 1951, in consequence of its adop-
tion by the necessary thirty-sixth state, which was Minnesota.67

     65 “As a matter of constitutional logic, the executive branch must have some war-

rant, either statutory or constitutional, for its actions. The source of all Federal Gov-
ernmental authority is the Constitution and, because the Constitution contemplates
that Congress may delegate a measure of its power to officials in the executive branch,
statutes. The principle of separation of powers is a direct consequence of this scheme.
Absent statutory authorization, it is unlawful for the President to exercise the pow-
ers of the other branches because the Constitution does not vest those powers in
the President. The absence of statutory authorization is not merely a statutory de-
fect; it is a constitutional defect as well.” 108 HARV. L. REV. at 305–06 (footnote cita-
tions omitted).
     66 As to the meaning of “the fourth day of March,” see Warren, Political Practice

and the Constitution, 89 U. PA. L. REV. 1003 (1941).
     67 E. Corwin, supra at 34–38, 331–339.
