to duties. Under the terms thereof the President, by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, appoints ambassadors, ministers,
foreign service officers, and consuls, but in practice the vast propor-
tion of the selections are made in conformance to recommendations
of a Board of the Foreign Service.
    Presidential Diplomatic Agents.—What the President may
have lost in consequence of the intervention of Congress in this field
of diplomatic appointments, he has made good through his early
conceded right to employ, in the discharge of his diplomatic func-
tion, so-called “special,” “personal,” or “secret” agents without con-
sulting the Senate. When President Jackson’s right to resort to this
practice was challenged in the Senate in 1831, it was defended by
Edward Livingston, Senator from Louisiana, to such good purpose
that Jackson made him Secretary of State. “The practice of appoint-
ing secret agents,” said Livingston, “is coeval with our existence as
a nation, and goes beyond our acknowledgment as such by other
powers. All those great men who have figured in the history of our
diplomacy, began their career, and performed some of their most
important services in the capacity of secret agents, with full pow-
ers. Franklin, Adams, Lee, were only commissioners; and in negoti-
ating a treaty with the Emperor of Morocco, the selection of the
secret agent was left to the Ministers appointed to make the treaty;
and, accordingly, in the year 1785, Mr. Adams and Mr. Jefferson
appointed Thomas Barclay, who went to Morocco and made a treaty,
which was ratified by the Ministers at Paris.”
    “These instances show that, even prior to the establishment of
the Federal Government, secret plenipotentiaries were known, as
well in the practice of our own country as in the general law of
nations: and that these secret agents were not on a level with mes-
sengers, letter carriers, or spies, to whom it has been found neces-
sary in argument to assimilate them. On the 30th March, 1795, in
the recess of the Senate, by letters patent under the great broad
seal of the United States, and the signature of their President, (that
President being George Washington,) countersigned by the Secre-
tary of State, David Humphreys was appointed commissioner pleni-
potentiary for negotiating a treaty of peace with Algiers. By instruc-
tions from the President, he was afterwards authorized to employ
Joseph Donaldson as agent in that business. In May, of the same
year, he did appoint Donaldson, who went to Algiers, and in Sep-
tember of the same year concluded a treaty with the Dey and Di-
van, which was confirmed by Humphreys, at Lisbon, on the 28th
November in the same year, and afterwards ratified by the Senate,
