statements by Hamilton, Marshall, James Wilson, and Story hav-
ing to do with the President’s power in the field of foreign rela-
tions.
     The Court rejected the implication with emphasis. There are, it
pointed out, “certain political duties imposed upon many officers in
the executive department, the discharge of which is under the direc-
tion of the President. But it would be an alarming doctrine, that
Congress cannot impose upon any executive officer any duty they
may think proper, which is not repugnant to any rights secured and
protected by the Constitution; and in such cases the duty and re-
sponsibility grow out of and are subject to the control of the law,
and not to the direction of the President. And this is emphatically
the case, where the duty enjoined is of a mere ministerial charac-
ter.” 711 In short, the Court recognized the underlying question of
the case to be whether the President’s duty to “take Care that the
Laws be faithfully executed” made it constitutionally impossible for
Congress ever to entrust the construction of its statutes to anybody
but the President, and it answered this in the negative.
     Myers Versus Morrison.—How does this issue stand today? The
answer to this question, so far as there is one, is to be sought in a
comparison of the Court’s decision in Myers, on the one hand, and
its decision in Morrison, on the other.712 The first decision is still
valid to support the President’s right to remove, and hence to con-
trol the decisions of, all officials through whom he exercises the great
political powers which he derives from the Constitution, and also
to remove many but not all officials—usually heads of departments—
through whom he exercises powers conferred upon him by statute.
Morrison, however, recasts Myers to be about the constitutional in-
ability of Congress to participate in removal decisions. It permits
Congress to limit the removal power of the President, and those
acting for him, by imposition of a “good cause” standard, subject to
a balancing test. That is, the Court now regards the critical issue
not as what officials do, whether they perform “purely executive”
functions or “quasi” legislative or judicial functions, though the du-
ties and functions must be considered. Rather, the Courts must “en-
sure that Congress does not interfere with the President’s exercise
of the ‘executive power’ ” and his constitutionally appointed duty un-
der Article II to take care that the laws be faithfully executed.713
Thus, the Court continued, Myers was correct in its holding and in
its suggestion that there are some executive officials who must be
    711   37 U.S. (12 Pet.) at 610.
    712   Myers v. United States, 272 U.S. 52 (1926); Morrison v. Olson, 487 U.S. 654
(1988).
    713   Morrison v. Olson, 487 U.S. at 689–90.
