as joining in some degree the opinion of the Court by Justice Black.756
The holding and the multiple opinions represent a setback for the
adherents of “inherent” executive powers,757 but they raise difficult
conceptual and practical problems with regard to presidential pow-
ers.

The Doctrine of the Opinion of the Court
    The chief points urged in the Black opinion are the following:
There was no statute that expressly or impliedly authorized the Presi-
dent to take possession of the property involved. On the contrary,
in its consideration of the Taft-Hartley Act in 1947, Congress re-
fused to authorize governmental seizures of property as a method
of preventing work stoppages and settling labor disputes. Author-
ity to issue such an order in the circumstances of the case was not
deducible from the aggregate of the President’s executive powers
under Article II of the Constitution; nor was the order maintain-
able as an exercise of the President’s powers as Commander in Chief
of the Armed Forces. The power sought to be exercised was the law-
making power, which the Constitution vests in the Congress alone.
Even if it were true that other Presidents have taken possession of
private business enterprises without congressional authority in or-
der to settle labor disputes, Congress was not thereby divested of
its exclusive constitutional authority to make the laws necessary
and proper to carry out all powers vested by the Constitution “in
the Government of the United States, or any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.” 758

The Doctrine Considered
    The pivotal proposition of the opinion of the Court is that, inas-
much as Congress could have directed the seizure of the steel mills,
the President had no power to do so without prior congressional
authorization. To this reasoning, not only the dissenters but Jus-
tice Clark, in a concurring opinion, would not concur, and in fact
they stated baldly that the reasoning was contradicted by prec-
     756 Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U.S. 579 (1952). In the major-

ity with Justice Black were Justices Frankfurter, Douglas, Jackson, Burton, and Clark.
Dissenting were Chief Justice Vinson and Justices Reed and Minton. For critical
consideration of the case, see Corwin, The Steel Seizure Case: A Judicial Brick With-
out Straw, 53 COLUM. L. REV. 53 (1953); Roche, Executive Power and Domestic Emer-
gency: The Quest for Prerogative, 5 WEST. POL. Q. 592 (1952). For a comprehensive
account, see M. MARCUS, TRUMAN AND THE STEEL SEIZURE CASE: THE LIMITS OF PRESIDENTIAL
POWER (1977).
     757 Indeed, the breadth of the Government’s arguments in the district court may

well have contributed to the defeat, despite the much more measured contentions
set out in the Supreme Court. See A. WESTIN, THE ANATOMY OF A CONSTITUTIONAL LAW
CASE 56–65 (1958) (argument in district court).
     758 343 U.S. at 585–89.
