gress’s specifically delegated powers, with any legal discretion which
the President is not entitled to control was first asserted in unam-
biguous terms in President Jackson’s Protest Message of April 15,
1834,708 defending his removal of Duane as Secretary of the Trea-
sury, because of the latter’s refusal to remove the deposits from the
Bank of the United States. Here it is asserted “that the entire ex-
ecutive power is vested in the President;” that the power to remove
those officers who are to aid him in the execution of the laws is an
incident of that power; that the Secretary of the Treasury was such
an officer; that the custody of the public property and money was
an executive function exercised through the Secretary of the Trea-
sury and his subordinates; that in the performance of these duties
the Secretary was subject to the supervision and control of the Presi-
dent; and finally that the act establishing the Bank of the United
States “did not, as it could not change the relation between the Presi-
dent and Secretary—did not release the former from his obligation
to see the law faithfully executed nor the latter from the Presi-
dent’s supervision and control.” 709 In short, the President’s re-
moval power, in this case unqualified, was the sanction provided
by the Constitution for his power and duty to control his “subordi-
nates” in all their official actions of public consequence.
     Congressional Power Versus Presidential Duty to the Law.—
The Court’s 1838 decision in Kendall v. United States ex rel. Stokes,710
shed more light on congressional power to mandate actions by ex-
ecutive branch officials. The United States owed Stokes money, and
when Postmaster General Kendall, at Jackson’s instigation, re-
fused to pay it, Congress passed a special act ordering payment.
Kendall, however, still proved noncompliant, whereupon Stokes sought
and obtained a mandamus in the United States circuit court for
the District of Columbia, and on appeal this decision was affirmed
by the Supreme Court. Although Kendall, like Marbury v. Madi-
son, involved the question of the responsibility of a head of a depart-
ment for the performance of a ministerial duty, the discussion by
counsel before the Court and the Court’s own opinion covered the
entire subject of the relation of the President to his subordinates
in the performance by them of statutory duties. The lower court
had asserted that the duty of the President under the faithful ex-
ecution clause gave him no other control over the officer than to
see that he acts honestly, with proper motives, but no power to con-
strue the law and see that the executive action conforms to it. Coun-
sel for Kendall attacked this position vigorously, relying largely upon
   708 3 J. Richardson, supra at 1288.
   709 Id. at 1304.
   710 37 U.S. (12 Pet.) 524 (1838).
