to delegate the power to the judiciary.50 On the other hand, in the
independent counsel case, although acknowledging that the con-
tested statute restricted a constitutionally delegated function (law
enforcement), the Court upheld the statute, using a flexible analy-
sis that emphasized that neither the legislative nor the judicial branch
had aggrandized its power and that the incursion into executive power
did not impermissibly interfere with the President’s constitution-
ally assigned functions.51
     At issue in Synar were the responsibilities vested in the Comp-
troller General by the “Gramm-Rudman-Hollings” Deficit Control Act,52
which set maximum deficit amounts for federal spending for fiscal
years 1986 through 1991, and which directed across-the-board cuts
in spending when projected deficits would exceed the target defi-
cits. The Comptroller was to prepare a report for each fiscal year
containing detailed estimates of projected federal revenues and ex-
penditures, and specifying the reductions, if any, necessary to meet
the statutory target. The President was required to implement the
reductions specified in the Comptroller’s report. The Court viewed
these functions of the Comptroller “as plainly entailing execution
of the law in constitutional terms. Interpreting a law . . . to imple-
ment the legislative mandate is the very essence of ‘execution’ of
the law,” especially where “exercise [of] judgment” is called for, and
where the President is required to implement the interpretation.53
Because Congress by earlier enactment had retained authority to
remove the Comptroller General from office, the Court held, execu-
tive powers may not be delegated to him. “By placing the responsi-
bility for execution of the [Act] in the hands of an officer who is

     50 Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U.S. 555, 576–78 (1992). Evidently, how-

ever, although Justices Kennedy and Souter joined this part of the opinion, id. at
579 (concurring in part and concurring in the judgment), they do not fully subscribe
to the apparent full reach of Justice Scalia’s doctrinal position, leaving the position,
if that be true, supported in full only by a plurality.
     51 Morrison v. Olson, 487 U.S. 654 (1988). The opinion by Chief Justice Rehnquist

was joined by seven of the eight participating Justices. Only Justice Scalia dis-
sented. In Mistretta v. United States, 488 U.S. 361, 390–91 (1989), the Court, ap-
proving the placement of the Sentencing Commission in the judicial branch, denied
that executive powers were diminished because of the historic judicial responsibility
to determine what sentence to impose on a convicted offender. Earlier, in Young v.
United States ex rel. Vuitton, 481 U.S. 787 (1987), the Court, in upholding the power
of federal judges to appoint private counsel to prosecute contempt of court actions,
rejected the assertion that the judiciary usurped executive power in appointing such
counsel.
     52 The Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, Pub. L. 99–

177, 99 Stat. 1038.
     53 478 U.S. at 732–33.
