     The Court’s decision in Nixon v. Administrator of General Ser-
vices 605 did not elucidate any of these questions to any great de-
gree. In upholding the Presidential Recordings and Materials Pres-
ervation Act, which directed the government to take custody of former
President Nixon’s records so that they could be screened, cata-
logued, and processed by professional archivists in GSA, the Court
viewed the assertion of privilege as directed only to the facial valid-
ity of the requirement of screening by executive branch profession-
als, and not at all related to the possible public disclosure of some
of the records. The decision did recognize “adequate justifications”
for enactment of the law, and termed them cumulatively “compa-
rable” to those held to justify in camera inspection in United States
v. Nixon.606 Congress’s purposes cited by the Court included the pres-
ervation of the materials for legitimate historical and governmen-
tal purposes, the rationalization of preservation and access to pub-
lic needs as well as each President’s wishes, the preservation of the
materials as a source for facilitating a full airing of the events lead-
ing to the former President’s resignation for public and congressio-
nal understanding, and preservation for the light shed upon issues
in civil or criminal litigation. Although interestingly instructive, the
decision may be so attuned to the narrow factual circumstances that
led to the Act’s passage as to leave the case of little precedential
value.
    Public disclosure was at issue in 2004 when the Court weighed
a claim of executive privilege asserted as a bar to discovery orders
for information disclosing the identities of individuals who served
on an energy task force chaired by the Vice President.607 Although
the case was remanded on narrow technical grounds, the Court dis-
tinguished United States v. Nixon,608 and, in instructing the ap-



     605 433 U.S. 425, 446–55 (1977). See id. at 504, 545 (Chief Justice Burger and

Justice Rehnquist dissenting). The decision does resolve one outstanding question:
assertion of the privilege is not limited to incumbent Presidents. Id. at 447–49. Sub-
sequently, a court held that former-President Nixon had had such a property expec-
tancy in his papers that he was entitled to compensation for their seizure under the
Act. Nixon v. United States, 978 F.2d 1269 (D.C. Cir. 1992).
     606 433 U.S. at 452.
     607 Cheney v. United States District Court, 542 U.S. 367 (2004).
     608 Although the information sought in Nixon was important to “the constitu-

tional need for production of relevant evidence in a criminal proceeding,” the suit
against the Vice President was civil, and withholding the information “does not ham-
per another branch’s ability to perform its ‘essential functions.’ ” 542 U.S. at 383,
384.
