the laws, i.e., his discretion in the manner of execution. The Presi-
dent, the argument went, is responsible for deciding when two con-
flicting goals of Congress can be harmonized and when one must
give way, when, for example, congressional desire to spend certain
moneys must yield to congressional wishes to see price and wage
stability. In some respects, impoundment was said or implied to flow
from certain inherent executive powers that repose in any Presi-
dent. Finally, statutory support was sought; certain laws were said
to confer discretion to withhold spending, and it was argued that
congressional spending programs are discretionary rather than man-
datory.688
     On the other hand, it was argued that Congress’s powers un-
der Article I, § 8, were fully adequate to support its decision to au-
thorize certain programs, to determine the amount of funds to be
spent on them, and to mandate the Executive to execute the laws.
Permitting the President to impound appropriated funds allowed him
the power of item veto, which he does not have, and denied Con-
gress the opportunity to override his veto of bills enacted by Con-
gress. In particular, the power of Congress to compel the President
to spend appropriated moneys was said to derive from Congress’s
power “to make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution” the enumerated powers of Congress and
“all other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or officer thereof.” 689
     The President’s decision to impound large amounts of appropri-
ated funds led to two approaches to curtail the power. First, many
persons and organizations, with a reasonable expectation of receipt
of the impounded funds upon their release, brought large numbers
of suits; with a few exceptions, these suits resulted in decisions de-
nying the President either constitutional or statutory power to de-
cline to spend or obligate funds, and the Supreme Court, presented
with only statutory arguments by the Administration, held that no
discretion existed under the particular statute to withhold allot-
ments of funds to the states.690 Second, Congress in the course of
revising its own manner of appropriating funds in accordance with
     688 Impoundment of Appropriated Funds by the President: Hearings Before the

Senate Government Operations Ad Hoc Subcommittee on Impoundment of Funds, 93d
Congress, 1st Sess. (1973), 358 (then-Deputy Attorney General Sneed).
     689 Id. at 1–6 (Senator Ervin). Of course, it was long ago established that Con-

gress could direct the expenditure of at least some moneys from the Treasury, even
over the opposition of the President. Kendall v. United States ex rel. Stokes, 37 U.S.
(12 Pet.) 524 (1838).
     690 Train v. City of New York, 420 U.S. 35 (1975); Train v. Campaign Clean Wa-

ter, 420 U.S. 136 (1975). See also State Highway Comm’n of Missouri v. Volpe, 479
F.2d 1099 (8th Cir. 1973); Pennsylvania v. Lynn, 501 F.2d 848 (D.C. Cir. 1974) (the
latter case finding statutory discretion not to spend).
