privileged, are to be made available. Thus, although the Presi-
dent’s claim of privilege is entitled to deference, the courts must
balance two sets of interests when the claim depends solely on a
broad, undifferentiated claim of confidentiality.
    “In this case we must weigh the importance of the general privi-
lege of confidentiality of presidential communications in perfor-
mance of his responsibilities against the inroads of such a privilege
on the fair administration of criminal justice. The interest in pre-
serving confidentiality is weighty indeed and entitled to great re-
spect. However we cannot conclude that advisers will be moved to
temper the candor of their remarks by the infrequent occasions of
disclosure because of the possibility that such conversations will be
called for in the context of a criminal prosecution.”
    “On the other hand, the allowance of the privilege to withhold
evidence that is demonstrably relevant in a criminal trial would cut
deeply into the guarantee of due process of law and gravely impair
the basic function of the courts. A President’s acknowledged need
for confidentiality in the communications of his office is general in
nature, whereas the constitutional need for production of relevant
evidence in a criminal proceeding is specific and central to the fair
adjudication of a particular criminal case in the administration of
justice. . . .”
    “We conclude that when the ground for asserting privilege as
to subpoenaed materials sought for use in a criminal trial is based
only on the generalized interest in confidentiality, it cannot prevail
over the fundamental demands of due process of law in the fair ad-
ministration of criminal justice.” 604
    Obviously, United States v. Nixon left much unresolved. It did
recognize the constitutional status of executive privilege as a doc-
trine. It did affirm the power of the courts to resolve disputes over
claims of the privilege. But it left unsettled just how much power
the courts have to review claims of privilege to protect what are
claimed to be military, diplomatic, or sensitive national security se-
crets. It did not indicate what the status of the claim of confidenti-
ality of conversations is when it is raised in civil cases, nor did it
touch upon denial of information to Congress, or public disclosure
of information.

    604 418 U.S. 683, 711–13. Essentially the same decision had been arrived at in

the context of subpoenas of tapes and documentary evidence for use before a grand
jury in Nixon v. Sirica, 487 F.2d 700 (D.C. Cir. 1973).
