    Relying expressly upon Myers, the Court concluded that “Con-
gress cannot reserve for itself the power of removal of an officer
charged with the execution of the laws except by impeachment.” 574
But Humphrey’s Executor was also cited with approval, and to the
contention that invalidation of this law would cast doubt on the sta-
tus of the independent agencies the Court rejoined that the statu-
tory measure of the independence of those agencies was the assur-
ance of “for cause” removal by the President rather than congressional
involvement as in the instance of the Comptroller General.575 This
reconciliation of Myers and Humphrey’s Executor was made clear
and express in Morrison v. Olson.576
     That case sustained the independent counsel statute.577 Under
that law, the independent counsel, appointed by a special court upon
application by the Attorney General, may be removed by the Attor-
ney General “only for good cause, physical disability, mental inca-
pacity, or any other condition that substantially impairs the perfor-
mance of such independent counsel’s duties.” Because the counsel
was clearly exercising “purely” executive duties, in the sense that
term was used in Myers, it was urged that Myers governed and re-
quired the invalidation of the statute. The Court, however, said that
Myers stood only for the proposition that Congress could not in-
volve itself in the removal of executive officers. Its broad dicta that
the President must be able to remove at will officers performing
“purely” executive functions had not survived Humphrey’s Execu-
tor.
     It was true, the Court admitted, that, in the latter case, it had
distinguished between “purely” executive officers and officers who
exercise “quasi-legislative” and “quasi-judicial” powers in marking
the line between officials who may be presidentially removed at will
and officials who can be protected through some form of good cause
removal limits. “[B]ut our present considered view is that the deter-
mination of whether the Constitution allows Congress to impose a
‘good cause’-type restriction on the President’s power to remove an
official cannot be made to turn on whether or not that official is
classified as ‘purely executive.’ The analysis contained in our re-
moval cases is designed not to define rigid categories of those offi-
cials who may or may not be removed at will by the President, but
to ensure that Congress does not interfere with the President’s ex-
ercise of the ‘executive power’ and his constitutionally appointed duty
    574 478 U.S. at 726.
    575 478 U.S. at 725 n.4.
    576 487 U.S. 654 (1988).
    577 Pub. L. 95–521, title VI, 92 Stat. 1867, as amended by Pub. L. 97–409, 96

Stat. 2039, and Pub. L. 100–191, 101 Stat. 1293, 28 U.S.C. §§ 49, 591 et seq.
