bilities of utmost discretion and sensitivity,” 796 and diversion of his
energies by concerns with private lawsuits would “raise unique risks
to the effective functioning of government.” 797 Moreover, the presi-
dential privilege is rooted in the separation-of-powers doctrine, coun-
seling courts to tread carefully before intruding. Some interests are
important enough to require judicial action; “merely private suit[s]
for damages based on a President’s official acts” do not serve this
“broad public interest” necessitating the courts to act.798 Finally, quali-
fied immunity would not adequately protect the President, because
judicial inquiry into a functional analysis of his actions would bring
with it the evil immunity was to prevent; absolute immunity was
required.799

Unofficial Conduct
    In Clinton v. Jones,800 the Court, in a case of first impression,
held that the President did not have qualified immunity from civil
suit for conduct alleged to have taken place prior to his election,
and therefore denied the President’s request to delay both the trial
and discovery. The Court held that its precedents affording the Presi-
dent immunity from suit for his official conduct—primarily on the
basis that he should be enabled to perform his duties effectively
without fear that a particular decision might give rise to personal
liability—were inapplicable in this kind of case. Moreover, the
separation-of-powers doctrine did not require a stay of all private
actions against the President. Separation of powers is preserved by
guarding against the encroachment or aggrandizement of one of the
coequal branches of the government at the expense of another. How-
ever, a federal trial court tending to a civil suit in which the Presi-
dent is a party performs only its judicial function, not a function of
another branch. No decision by a trial court could curtail the scope
of the President’s powers. The trial court, the Supreme Court ob-
served, had sufficient powers to accommodate the President’s sched-
ule and his workload, so as not to impede the President’s perfor-
mance of his duties. Finally, the Court stated its belief that allowing
such suits to proceed would not generate a large volume of politi-
    796 457 U.S. at 750.
    797 457 U.S. at 751.
    798 457 U.S. at 754.
    799 457 U.S. at 755–57. Justices White, Brennan, Marshall, and Blackmun dis-

sented. The Court reserved decision whether Congress could expressly create a dam-
ages action against the President and abrogate the immunity, id. at 748–49 n.27,
thus appearing to disclaim that the decision is mandated by the Constitution; Chief
Justice Burger disagreed with the implication of this footnote, id. at 763–64 n.7 (con-
curring opinion), and the dissenters noted their agreement on this point with the
Chief Justice. Id. at 770 & n.4.
    800 520 U.S. 681 (1997).
