to ‘take care that the laws be faithfully executed’ under Article II.
Myers was undoubtedly correct in its holding, and in its broader
suggestion that there are some ‘purely executive’ officials who must
be removable by the President at will if he is to be able to accom-
plish his constitutional role. . . . At the other end of the spectrum
from Myers, the characterization of the agencies in Humphrey’s Ex-
ecutor and Wiener as ‘quasi-legislative’ or ‘quasi-judicial’ in large part
reflected our judgment that it was not essential to the President’s
proper execution of his Article II powers that these agencies be headed
up by individuals who were removable at will. We do not mean to
suggest that an analysis of the functions served by the officials at
issue is irrelevant. But the real question is whether the removal
restrictions are of such a nature that they impede the President’s
ability to perform his constitutional duty, and the functions of the
officials in question must be analyzed in that light.” 578
     The Court discerned no compelling reason to find the good cause
limit to interfere with the President’s performance of his duties. The
independent counsel did exercise executive, law-enforcement func-
tions, but the jurisdiction and tenure of each counsel were limited
in scope and policymaking, or significant administrative authority
was lacking. On the other hand, the removal authority did afford
the President through the Attorney General power to ensure the
“faithful execution” of the laws by assuring that the counsel is com-
petently performing the statutory duties of the office.
     It is now thus reaffirmed that Congress may not involve itself
in the removal of officials performing executive functions. It is also
established that, in creating offices in the executive branch and in
creating independent agencies, Congress has considerable discre-
tion in statutorily limiting the power to remove of the President or
another appointing authority. It is evident on the face of the opin-
ion that the discretion is not unbounded, that there are offices which
may be essential to the President’s performance of his constitution-
ally assigned powers and duties, so that limits on removal would
be impermissible. There are no bright lines marking off one office
from the other, but decision requires close analysis.579
     As a result of these cases, the long-running controversy with
respect to the legitimacy of the independent agencies appears to have
    578 487 U.S. at 689–91.
    579 But notice the analysis followed by three Justices in Public Citizen v. Depart-
ment of Justice, 491 U.S. 440, 467, 482–89 (1989) (concurring), and consider the
possible meaning of the recurrence to formalist reasoning in Granfinanciera, S.A. v.
Nordberg, 492 U.S. 33, (1989). See also Justice Scalia’s use of the Take Care Clause
in pronouncing limits on Congress’s constitutional power to confer citizen standing
in Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 505 U.S. 555, 576–78 (1992), although it is not
clear that he had a majority of the Court with him.
