removable by the President if he is to perform his duties.714 On the
other hand, Congress may believe that it is necessary to protect the
tenure of some officials, and if it has good reasons not limited to
invasion of presidential prerogatives, it will be sustained, provided
the removal restrictions are not of such a nature as to impede the
President’s ability to perform his constitutional duties.715 The offi-
cer in Morrison, the independent counsel, had investigative and
prosecutorial functions, purely executive ones, but there were good
reasons for Congress to secure her tenure and no showing that the
restriction “unduly trammels” presidential powers.716
    The “bright-line” rule previously observed no longer holds. Now,
Congress has a great deal more leeway in regulating executive offi-
cials, but it must articulate its reasons carefully and observe the
fuzzy lines set by the Court.
    Power of the President to Guide Enforcement of the Pe-
nal Law.—This matter also came to a head in “the reign of An-
drew Jackson,” preceding, and indeed foreshadowing, the Duane epi-
sode by some months. “At that epoch,” Wyman relates in his Principles
of Administrative Law, “the first amendment of the doctrine of cen-
tralism in its entirety was set forth in an obscure opinion upon an
unimportant matter—The Jewels of the Princess of Orange, 2 Opin.
482 (1831). These jewels . . . were stolen from the Princess by one
Polari and were seized by the officers of the United States Customs
in the hands of the thief. Representations were made to the Presi-
dent of the United States by the Minister of the Netherlands of the
facts in the matter, which were followed by a request for return of
the jewels. In the meantime the District Attorney was prosecuting
condemnation proceedings in behalf of the United States which he
showed no disposition to abandon. The President felt himself in a
dilemma, whether if it was by statute the duty of the District Attor-
ney to prosecute or not, the President could interfere and direct
whether to proceed or not. The opinion was written by Taney, then
Attorney General; it is full of pertinent illustrations as to the neces-
sity in an administration of full power in the chief executive as the
concomitant of his full responsibility. It concludes: If it should be
said that, the District Attorney having the power to discontinue the
prosecution, there is no necessity for inferring a right in the Presi-
dent to direct him to exercise it—I answer that the direction of the
President is not required to communicate any new authority to the
District Attorney, but to direct him in the execution of a power he
is admitted to possess. The most valuable and proper measure may
   714 487 U.S. at 690–91.
   715 487 U.S. at 691.
   716 487 U.S. at 691–92.
