in the following passage in his opinion: “There is nothing in the
Constitution which permits a distinction between the removal of the
head of a department or a bureau, when he discharges a political
duty of the President or exercises his discretion, and the removal
of executive officers engaged in the discharge of their other normal
duties. The imperative reasons requiring an unrestricted power to
remove the most important of his subordinates in their most impor-
tant duties must, therefore, control the interpretation of the Consti-
tution as to all appointed by him.” 557
    Thus spoke the former President Taft, and the result of his pre-
possession was a rule that, as was immediately pointed out, ex-
posed the so-called “independent agencies”—the Interstate Com-
merce Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, and the like—to
presidential domination. Unfortunately, the Chief Justice, while pro-
fessing to follow Madison’s leadership, had omitted to weigh prop-
erly the very important observation that the latter had made at the
time regarding the office of Comptroller of the Treasury. “The Com-
mittee,” said Madison, “has gone through the bill without making
any provision respecting the tenure by which the comptroller is to
hold his office. I think it is a point worthy of consideration, and
shall, therefore, submit a few observations upon it. It will be neces-
sary to consider the nature of this office, to enable us to come to a
right decision on the subject; in analyzing its properties, we shall
easily discover they are of a judiciary quality as well as the execu-
tive; perhaps the latter obtains in the greatest degree. The princi-
pal duty seems to be deciding upon the lawfulness and justice of
the claims and accounts subsisting between the United States and
particular citizens: this partakes strongly of the judicial character,
and there may be strong reasons why an officer of this kind should
not hold his office at the pleasure of the executive branch of the
government.” 558 In Humphrey’s Executor v. United States,559 the Court

was interpreted as establishing “a practical construction of the Constitution” with
respect to executive officers appointed without stated terms. However, in the domi-
nant opinion of those best authorized to speak on the subject, the “correct interpre-
tation” of the Constitution was that the power of removal was always an incident of
the power of appointment, and that therefore in the case of officers appointed by
the President with the advice and consent of the Senate the removal power was
exercisable by the President only with the advice and consent of the Senate. For an
extensive review of the issue at the time of Myers, see Corwin, The President’s Re-
moval Power Under the Constitution, in 4 SELECTED ESSAYS ON CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 1467
(1938).
     557 272 U.S. at 134. Note the parallelism of the arguments from separation-of-

powers and the President’s ability to enforce the laws in the decision rendered on
Congress’s effort to obtain a role in the actual appointment of executive officers in
Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U.S. 1, 109–43 (1976), and in many of the subsequent separation-
of-powers decisions.
     558 ANNALS OF CONGRESS 611–612 (1789).
