had been a treaty of alliance, offensive and defensive, between the
United States and that country, the unqualified acknowledgment of
the new government would have put the United States in a condi-
tion to become as an associate in the war with France, and would
have laid the legislature under an obligation, if required, and there
was otherwise no valid excuse, of exercising its power of declaring
war. This serves as an example of the right of the executive, in cer-
tain cases, to determine the condition of the nation, though it may,
in its consequences, affect the exercise of the power of the legisla-
ture to declare war. Nevertheless, the executive cannot thereby con-
trol the exercise of that power. The legislature is still free to per-
form its duties, according to its own sense of them; though the
executive, in the exercise of its constitutional powers, may estab-
lish an antecedent state of things, which ought to weigh in the leg-
islative decision. The division of the executive power in the Consti-
tution, creates a concurrent authority in the cases to which it
relates.” 642
     Jefferson’s Real Position.—Nor did Jefferson himself offi-
cially support Madison’s point of view, as the following extract from
his “minutes of a Conversation,” which took place July 10, 1793,
between himself and Citizen Genet, show: “He asked if they [Con-
gress] were not the sovereign. I told him no, they were sovereign
in making laws only, the executive was sovereign in executing them,
and the judiciary in construing them where they related to their
department. ‘But,’ said he, ‘at least, Congress are bound to see that
the treaties are observed.’ I told him no; there were very few cases
indeed arising out of treaties, which they could take notice of; that
the President is to see that treaties are observed. ‘If he decides against
the treaty, to whom is a nation to appeal?’ I told him the Constitu-
tion had made the President the last appeal. He made me a bow,
and said, that indeed he would not make me his compliments on
such a Constitution, expressed the utmost astonishment at it, and
seemed never before to have had such an idea.” 643

The Power of Recognition
    In his endeavor in 1793 to minimize the importance of the Presi-
dent’s power of reception, Madison denied that it involved cogni-
zance of the question, whether those exercising the government of
the accrediting state had the right along with the possession. He
said: “This belongs to the nation, and to the nation alone, on whom
the government operates. . . . It is evident, therefore, that if the
     642 Letter of Pacificus, No. 1, 7 WORKS   OF   ALEXANDER HAMILTON 76, 82–83 (J. Ham-
ilton ed., 1851).
     643 4 J. Moore, supra at 680–81.
