subject to removal only by itself, Congress in effect has retained
control over the execution of the Act and has intruded into the ex-
ecutive function.” 54
     The Court in Chadha and Synar ignored or rejected assertions
that its formalistic approach to separation of powers may bring into
question the validity of delegations of legislative authority to the
modern administrative state, sometimes called the “fourth branch.”
As Justice White asserted in dissent in Chadha, “by virtue of con-
gressional delegation, legislative power can be exercised by indepen-
dent agencies and Executive departments . . . . There is no ques-
tion but that agency rulemaking is lawmaking in any functional or
realistic sense of the term.” 55 Moreover, Justice White noted, “rules
and adjudications by the agencies meet the Court’s own definition
of legislative action . . . .” 56 Justice Stevens, concurring in Synar,
sounded the same chord in suggesting that the Court’s holding should
not depend on classification of “chameleon-like” powers as execu-
tive, legislative, or judicial.57 The Court answered these assertions
on two levels: that the bicameral protection “is not necessary” when
legislative power has been delegated to another branch confined to
implementing statutory standards set by Congress, and that “the
Constitution does not so require.” 58 In the same context, the Court
acknowledged without disapproval that it had described some agency
action as resembling lawmaking.59 Thus Chadha may not be read
as requiring that all “legislative power” as the Court defined it must
be exercised by Congress, and Synar may not be read as requiring
that all “executive power” as the Court defined it must be exer-
cised by the executive. A more limited reading is that when Con-
gress elects to exercise legislative power itself rather than delegate
it, it must follow the prescribed bicameralism and presentment pro-
cedures, and when Congress elects to delegate legislative power or
assign executive functions to the executive branch, it may not con-
trol exercise of those functions by itself exercising removal (or ap-
pointment) powers.
     A more flexible approach was followed in the independent coun-
sel case. Here, there was no doubt that the statute limited the Presi-
dent’s law enforcement powers. Upon a determination by the Attor-
ney General that reasonable grounds exist for investigation or
prosecution of certain high ranking government officials, he must
notify a special, Article III court which appoints a special counsel.
   54 478   U.S.   at   734.
   55 462   U.S.   at   985–86.
   56 462   U.S.   at   989.
   57 478   U.S.   at   736, 750.
   58 462   U.S.   at   953 n.16.
   59 462   U.S.   at   953 n.16.
