nine years later, a Senate Foreign Relations Committee took occa-
sion to reiterate Marshall’s doctrine with elaboration.639
    A Formal or a Formative Power.—In his attack, instigated
by Jefferson, upon Washington’s Proclamation of Neutrality in 1793
at the outbreak of war between France and Great Britain, Madison
advanced the argument that all large questions of foreign policy fell
within the ambit of Congress, by virtue of its power “to declare war”
In support of this proposition he disparaged the presidential func-
tion of reception: “I shall not undertake to examine, what would be
the precise extent and effect of this function in various cases which
fancy may suggest, or which time may produce. It will be more proper
to observe, in general, and every candid reader will second the ob-
servation, that little, if anything, more was intended by the clause,
than to provide for a particular mode of communication, almost grown
into a right among modern nations; by pointing out the depart-
ment of the government, most proper for the ceremony of admit-
ting public ministers, of examining their credentials, and of authen-
ticating their title to the privileges annexed to their character by
the law of nations. This being the apparent design of the constitu-
tion, it would be highly improper to magnify the function into an
important prerogative, even when no rights of other departments
could be affected by it.” 640
    The President’s Diplomatic Role.—Hamilton, although he had
expressed substantially the same view in The Federalist regarding
the power of reception,641 adopted a very different conception of it
in defense of Washington’s proclamation. Writing under the pseud-
onym, “Pacificus,” he said: “The right of the executive to receive am-
bassadors and other public ministers, may serve to illustrate the
relative duties of the executive and legislative departments. This
right includes that of judging, in the case of a revolution of govern-
ment in a foreign country, whether the new rulers are competent
organs of the national will, and ought to be recognized, or not; which,
where a treaty antecedently exists between the United States and
such nation, involves the power of continuing or suspending its op-
eration. For until the new government is acknowledged, the trea-
ties between the nations, so far at least as regards public rights,
are of course suspended. This power of determining virtually upon
the operation of national treaties, as a consequence of the power to
receive public ministers, is an important instance of the right of
the executive, to decide upon the obligations of the country with
regard to foreign nations. To apply it to the case of France, if there
   639 S. Doc. No. 56, 54th Congress, 2d Sess. (1897).
   640 1 LETTERS AND OTHER WRITINGS OF JAMES MADISON 611 (1865).
   641 No. 69 (J. Cooke ed. 1961), 468.
