under the guise of reconsideration of his nomination.” The Senate
thereupon voted to reconsider the nominations in question, again
approving two of the nominees, but rejecting the third, against whom
it instructed the District Attorney of the District of Columbia to in-
stitute quo warranto proceedings in the Supreme Court of the Dis-
trict. In United States v. Smith,551 the Supreme Court overruled the
proceedings on the ground that the Senate had never before at-
tempted to apply its rule in the case of an appointee who had al-
ready been installed in office on the faith of the Senate’s initial con-
sent and notification to the President. In 1939, President Roosevelt
rejected a similar demand by the Senate, an action that went un-
challenged.552

The Removal Power
     The Myers Case.—Save for the provision which it makes for a
power of impeachment of “civil officers of the United States,” the
Constitution contains no reference to a power to remove from of-
fice, and until its decision in Myers v. United States,553 on October
25, 1926, the Supreme Court had contrived to sidestep every occa-
sion for a decisive pronouncement regarding the removal power, its
extent, and location. The point immediately at issue in the Myers
case was the effectiveness of an order of the Postmaster General,
acting by direction of the President, to remove from office a first-
class postmaster, in the face of the following provision of an act of
Congress passed in 1876: “Postmasters of the first, second, and third
classes shall be appointed and may be removed by the President
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and shall hold
their offices for four years unless sooner removed or suspended ac-
cording to law.” 554
     A divided Court, speaking through Chief Justice Taft, held the
order of removal valid and the statutory provision just quoted void.
The Chief Justice’s relied mainly on the so-called “decision of 1789,”
which referred to Congress’s that year inserting in the act establish-
ing the Department of State a proviso that was meant to imply rec-
ognition that the Secretary would be removable by the President
at will. The proviso was especially urged by Madison, who invoked
in support of it the opening words of Article II and the President’s
duty to “take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.”
     Succeeding passages of the Chief Justice’s opinion erected on
this basis a highly selective account of doctrine and practice regard-
   551 286 U.S. 6 (1932).
   552 E. Corwin, supra at 77.
   553 272 U.S. 52 (1926).
   554 19 Stat. 78, 80.
