charge of such duty? In the debate in the House in 1789 on the
location of the removal power, Madison argued that it ought to be
attributed to the President alone because it was “the intention of
the Constitution, expressed especially in the faithful execution clause,
that the first magistrate should be responsible for the executive de-
partment,” and this responsibility, he held, carried with it the power
to “inspect and control” the conduct of subordinate executive offi-
cers. “Vest,” said he, “the power [of removal] in the Senate jointly
with the President, and you abolish at once the great principle of
unity and responsibility in the executive department, which was in-
tended for the security of liberty and the public good.” 703
    But this was said with respect to the office of the Secretary of
State, and when shortly afterward the question arose as to the power
of Congress to regulate the tenure of the Comptroller of the Trea-
sury, Madison assumed a very different attitude, conceding in ef-
fect that this office was to be an arm of certain of Congress’s own
powers and should therefore be protected against the removal power.704
And in Marbury v. Madison,705 Chief Justice Marshall traced a par-
allel distinction between the duties of the Secretary of State under
the original act which had created a “Department of Foreign Af-
fairs” and those which had been added by the later act changing
the designation of the department to its present one. The former
were, he pointed out, entirely in the “political field,” and hence for
their discharge the Secretary was left responsible absolutely to the
President. The latter, on the other hand, were exclusively of statu-
tory origin and sprang from the powers of Congress. For these, there-
fore, the Secretary was “an officer of the law” and “amenable to the
law for his conduct.” 706
    Administrative Decentralization Versus Jacksonian Cen-
tralism.—An opinion rendered by Attorney General Wirt in 1823
asserted the proposition that the President’s duty under the Take
Care Clause required of him scarcely more than that he should bring
a criminally negligent official to book for his derelictions, either by
removing him or by setting in motion against him the processes of
impeachment or of criminal prosecutions.707 The opinion entirely over-
looked the important question of the location of the power to inter-
pret the law, which is inevitably involved in any effort to enforce it.
The diametrically opposed theory that Congress is unable to vest
any head of an executive department, even within the field of Con-
   703 1 ANNALS OF CONG. 495, 499 (1789).
   704 Id. at 611–612.
   705 5 U.S. (1 Cr.) 137 (1803).
   706 5 U.S. (1 Cr.) at 165–66.
   707 1 Ops. Atty. Gen. 624 (1823).
