     A different view seemed to underlie the Supreme Court deci-
sion in United States v. Belmont,470 giving domestic effect to the
Litvinov Assignment. The Court’s opinion by Justice Sutherland built
on his Curtiss-Wright 471 opinion. A lower court had erred, the Court
ruled, in dismissing an action by the United States, as assignee of
the Soviet Union, for certain moneys which had once been the prop-
erty of a Russian metal corporation the assets of which had been
appropriated by the Soviet government. The President’s act in rec-
ognizing the Soviet government, and the accompanying agree-
ments, constituted, said the Justice, an international compact which
the President, “as the sole organ” of international relations for the
United States, was authorized to enter upon without consulting the
Senate. Nor did state laws and policies make any difference in such
a situation; while the supremacy of treaties is established by the
Constitution in express terms, the same rule holds “in the case of
all international compacts and agreements from the very fact that
complete power over international affairs is in the National Govern-
ment and is not and cannot be subject to any curtailment or inter-
ference on the part of the several States.” 472
     The Court elaborated on these principles five years later in United
States v. Pink,473 another case involving the Litvinov Assignment
and recognition of the Soviet Government. The question presented
was whether the United States was entitled to recover the assets
of the New York branch of a Russian insurance company. The com-
pany argued that the Soviet Government’s decrees of confiscation
did not apply to its property in New York and could not apply con-
sistently with the Constitution of the United States and that of New
York. The Court, speaking by Justice Douglas, brushed these argu-
ments aside. An official declaration of the Russian government it-
self settled the question of the extraterritorial operation of the Rus-
sian decree of nationalization and was binding on American courts.
The power to remove such obstacles to full recognition as settle-
ment of claims of our nationals was “a modest implied power of the
President who is the ‘sole organ of the Federal Government in the
field of international relations’. . . . It was the judgment of the po-
litical department that full recognition of the Soviet Government
required the settlement of outstanding problems including the claims
of our nationals. . . . We would usurp the executive function if we
held that the decision was not final and conclusive on the courts. . . .”
    470 301 U.S. 324 (1937). In B. Altman & Co. v. United States, 224 U.S. 583 (1912),

the Court had recognized that a jurisdictional statute’s reference to a “treaty” encom-
passed an executive agreement.
    471 United States v. Curtiss-Wright Export Corp., 299 U.S. 304 (1936).
    472 301 U.S. at 330–31.
    473 315 U.S. 203 (1942).
