executive has a right to reject a public minister, it must be founded
on some other consideration than a change in the government, or
the newness of the government; and consequently a right to refuse
to acknowledge a new government cannot be implied by the right
to refuse a public minister. It is not denied that there may be cases
in which a respect to the general principles of liberty, the essential
rights of the people, or the overruling sentiments of humanity, might
require a government, whether new or old, to be treated as an ille-
gitimate despotism. Such are in fact discussed and admitted by the
most approved authorities. But they are great and extraordinary
cases, by no means submitted to so limited an organ of the na-
tional will as the executive of the United States; and certainly not
to be brought by any torture of words, within the right to receive
ambassadors.” 644
    Hamilton, with the case of Genet before him, had taken the con-
trary position, which history has ratified. In consequence of his power
to receive and dispatch diplomatic agents, but more especially the
former, the President possesses the power to recognize new states,
communities claiming the status of belligerency, and changes of gov-
ernment in established states; also, by the same token, the power
to decline recognition, and thereby decline diplomatic relations with
such new states or governments. The affirmative precedents down
to 1906 are succinctly summarized by John Bassett Moore in his
famous Digest, as follows: “In the preceding review of the recogni-
tion, respectively, of the new states, new governments, and belliger-
ency, there has been made in each case a precise statement of facts,
showing how and by whom the recognition was accorded. In every
case, as it appears, of a new government and of belligerency, the
question of recognition was determined solely by the Executive. In
the case of the Spanish-American republics, of Texas, of Hayti, and
of Liberia, the President, before recognizing the new state, invoked
the judgment and cooperation of Congress; and in each of these cases
provision was made for the appointment of a minister, which, when
made in due form, constitutes, as has been seen, according to the
rules of international law, a formal recognition. In numerous other
cases, the recognition was given by the Executive solely on his own
responsibility.” 645
    The Case of Cuba.—The question of Congress’s right also to
recognize new states was prominently raised in connection with Cu-
ba’s successful struggle for independence. Beset by numerous legis-
lative proposals of a more or less mandatory character, urging rec-
ognition upon the President, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
   644   Letters of Helvidius, 5 WRITINGS OF JAMES MADISON 133 (G. Hunt ed., 1905).
   645   1 J. Moore, supra, 243–44. See Restatement, Foreign Relations §§ 204, 205.
