     Conceptually, the doctrine of executive privilege may well re-
flect different considerations in different factual situations. Con-
gress may seek information within the possession of the President,
either in effectuation of its investigatory powers to oversee the con-
duct of officials of the Executive Branch or in effectuation of its power
to impeach the President, Vice President, or civil officers of the Gov-
ernment. Private parties may seek information in the possession of
the President either in civil litigation with the Government or in a
criminal proceeding brought by government prosecutors. Generally,
the categories of executive privilege have been the same whether it
is Congress or a private individual seeking the information, but it
is possible that the congressional assertion of need may over-
balance the presidential claim to a greater degree than that of a
private individual. The judicial precedents are so meager that it is
not yet possible so to state, however.
    The doctrine of executive privilege defines the authority of the
President to withhold documents or information in his possession
or in the possession of the executive branch from compulsory pro-
cess of the legislative or judicial branch of the government. The Con-
stitution does not expressly confer upon the Executive Branch any
such privilege, but it has been claimed that the privilege derives
from the constitutional provision of separation of powers and from
a necessary and proper concept respecting the carrying out of the
duties of the presidency imposed by the Constitution. Historically,
assertion of the doctrine has been largely confined to the areas of
foreign relations, military affairs, pending investigations, and
intragovernmental discussions.593 During the Nixon Administra-

     593 For a good statement of the basis of the doctrine, the areas in which it is

asserted, and historical examples, see Executive Privilege: The Withholding of Infor-
mation by the Executive: Hearings Before the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Sepa-
ration of Powers, 92d Congress, 1st Sess. (1971), 420–43, (then-Assistant Attorney
General Rehnquist). Former Attorney General Rogers, in stating the position of the
Eisenhower Administration, identified five categories of executive privilege: (1) mili-
tary and diplomatic secrets and foreign affairs, (2) information made confidential by
statute, (3) information relating to pending litigation, and investigative files and re-
ports, (4) information relating to internal government affairs privileged from disclo-
sure in the public interest, and (5) records incidental to the making of policy, includ-
ing interdepartmental memoranda, advisory opinions, recommendations of subordinates,
and informal working papers. The Power of the President To Withhold Information
from the Congress, Memorandum of the Attorney General, Senate Judiciary Subcom-
mittee on Constitutional Rights, 85th Congress, 2d Sess. (Comm. Print) (1958), re-
printed as Rogers, Constitutional Law: The Papers of the Executive Branch, 44 A.B.A.J.
941 (1958). In the most expansive version of the doctrine, Attorney General Kleindienst
argued that the President could assert the privilege as to any employee of the Fed-
eral Government to keep secret any information at all. Executive Privilege, Secrecy
in Government, Freedom of Information: Hearings Before the Senate Government Op-
erations Subcommittee on Intergovernmental Relations, 93d Congress, 1st Sess. (1973),
