peals court on how to proceed, emphasized the importance of confi-
dentiality for advice tendered the President.609
    Congressional Access to Executive Branch Information.—
Presidents and Congresses have engaged in protracted disputes over
provision of information from the former to the latter, but the basic
thing to know is that most congressional requests for information
are complied with. The disputes, however, have been colorful and
varied.610 The basic premise of the concept of executive privilege,
as it is applied to resist requests for information from Congress as
from private parties with or without the assistance of the courts, is
found in the doctrine of separation of powers, the prerogative of each
coequal branch to operate within its own sphere independent of con-
trol or direction of the other branches. In this context, the Presi-
dent then asserts that phase of the claim of privilege relevant to
the moment, such as confidentiality of communications, protection
of diplomatic and military secrets, or preservation of investigative
records. Counterposed against this assertion of presidential privi-
lege is the power of Congress to obtain information upon which to
legislate, to oversee the carrying out of its legislation, to check and
root out corruption and wrongdoing in the Executive Branch, involv-
ing both the legislating and appropriating function of Congress, and
in the final analysis to impeach the President, the Vice President,
and all civil officers of the Federal Government.
     Until quite recently, all disputes between the President and Con-
gress with regard to requests for information were settled in the
political arena, with the result that few if any lasting precedents
were created and only disputed claims were left to future argu-
ment. The Senate Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Ac-
tivities, however, elected to seek a declaratory judgment in the courts
with respect to the President’s obligations to obey its subpoenas.
The Committee lost its case, but the courts based their rulings upon
prudential considerations rather than upon questions of basic power,
inasmuch as by the time the case was considered impeachment pro-
ceedings were pending in the House of Representatives.611 The House
Judiciary Committee subpoenas were similarly rejected by the Presi-
dent, but instead of going to the courts for enforcement, the Com-
    609 The Court recognized “the paramount necessity of protecting the Executive

Branch from vexatious litigation that might distract it from the energetic perfor-
mance of its constitutional duties.” 542 U.S. at 382. But cf. Clinton v. Jones, 520
U.S. 681, 702 (1997).
    610 See the extensive discussion in Shane, Legal Disagreement and Negotiation

in a Government of Laws: The Case of Executive Privilege Claims Against Congress,
71 MINN. L. REV. 461 (1987).
    611 Senate Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities v. Nixon, 370

F. Supp. 521 (D.D.C.), aff’d, 498 F.2d 725 (D.C. Cir. 1974).
