    “The result of what we now have said is this: Whether the power
of the President to remove an officer shall prevail over the author-
ity of Congress to condition the power by fixing a definite term and
precluding a removal except for cause, will depend upon the char-
acter of the office; the Myers decision, affirming the power of the
President alone to make the removal, is confined to purely execu-
tive officers; and as to officers of the kind here under consideration,
we hold that no removal can be made during the prescribed term
for which the officer is appointed, except for one or more of the causes
named in the applicable statute.” 560
     The Wiener Case.—Curtailment of the President’s power of re-
moval, so liberally delineated in the Myers decision, was not to end
with the Humphrey case. Unresolved by the latter was the ques-
tion whether the President, absent a provision expressly delimiting
his authority in the statute creating an agency endowed with quasi-
judicial functions, remained competent to remove members serving
thereon. To this query the Court supplied a negative answer in Wie-
ner v. United States.561 Emphasizing that the duties of the War Claims
Commission were wholly adjudicatory and its determinations, final
and exempt from review by any other official or judicial body, the
Court unanimously concluded that inasmuch as the President was
unable to supervise its activities, he lacked the power, indepen-
dently of statutory authorization, to remove a commissioner whose
term expired with the life of that agency.
     The Watergate Controversy.—A dispute arose regarding the
discharge of the Special Prosecutor appointed to investigate and pros-
ecute violations of law in the Watergate matter. Congress vested in
the Attorney General the power to conduct the criminal litigation
of the Federal Government,562 and it further authorized him to ap-
point subordinate officers to assist him in the discharge of his du-
ties.563 Pursuant to presidential direction, the Attorney General des-
ignated a Watergate Special Prosecutor with broad power to investigate
and prosecute offenses arising out of the Watergate break-in, the
1972 presidential election, and allegations involving the President,
     560 295 U.S. at 627–29, 631–32. Justice Sutherland’s statement, quoted above,

that a Federal Trade Commissioner “occupies no place in the executive department”
was not necessary to the decision of the case, was altogether out of line with the
same Justice’s reasoning in Springer v. Philippine Islands, 277 U.S. 189, 201–202
(1928), and seems later to have caused the author of it much perplexity. See R. CUSH-
MAN, THE INDEPENDENT REGULATORY COMMISSION 447–48 (1941). As Professor Cushman
adds: “Every officer and agency created by Congress to carry laws into effect is an
arm of Congress. . . . The term may be a synonym; it is not an argument.” Id. at
451.
     561 357 U.S. 349 (1958).
     562 28 U.S.C. § 516.
     563 28 U.S.C. §§ 509, 510, 515, 533.
