sivity. “No State can rewrite our foreign policy to conform to its own
domestic policies. Power over external affairs is not shared by the
States; it is vested in the national government exclusively. It need
not be so exercised as to conform to state laws or state policies,
whether they be expressed in constitutions, statutes, or judicial de-
crees. And the policies of the States become wholly irrelevant to ju-
dicial inquiry when the United States, acting within its constitu-
tional sphere, seeks enforcement of its foreign policy in the courts.” 481
    It was not until 1968, however, that the Court applied the gen-
eral principle to invalidate a state law for impinging on the na-
tion’s foreign policy interests in the absence of an established fed-
eral policy. In Zschernig v. Miller 482 the Court invalidated an Oregon
escheat law that operated to prevent inheritance by citizens of Com-
munist countries. The law conditioned inheritance by nonresident
aliens on a showing that U.S. citizens would be allowed to inherit
estates in the alien’s country, and that the alien heir would be al-
lowed to receive payments from the Oregon estate “without confis-
cation.” 483 Although a Justice Department amicus brief asserted that
application of the Oregon law in this one case would not cause any
“undu[e] interfer[ence] with the United States’ conduct of foreign
relations,” the Court saw a “persistent and subtle” effect on inter-
national relations stemming from the “notorious” practice of state
probate courts in denying payments to persons from Communist coun-
tries.484 Regulation of descent and distribution of estates is an area
traditionally regulated by states, but such “state regulations must
give way if they impair the effective exercise of the Nation’s foreign
policy.” If there are to be travel, probate, or other restraints on citi-
zens of Communist countries, the Court concluded, such restraints
“must be provided by the Federal Government.” 485
    Zschernig lay dormant for some time, and, although it has been
addressed recently by the Court, it remains the only holding in which
the Court has applied a dormant foreign relations power to strike
down state law. There was renewed academic interest in Zschernig
in the 1990s, as some state and local governments sought ways to
express dissatisfaction with human rights policies of foreign govern-

     481 United States v. Pink, 315 U.S. 203, 233–34 (1942). Chief Justice Stone and

Justice Roberts dissented.
     482 389 U.S. 429 (1968).
     483 In Clark v. Allen, 331 U.S. 503 (1947), the Court had upheld a simple reci-

procity requirement that did not have the additional requirement relating to confis-
cation.
     484 389 U.S. at 440.
     485 389 U.S. at 440, 441.
