ernment under the Constitution?” 720 Obviously, an affirmative an-
swer is assumed to the second branch of this inquiry, an assump-
tion that is borne out by numerous precedents. And, in United States
v. Midwest Oil Co.,721 the Court ruled that the President had, by
dint of repeated assertion of it from an early date, acquired the right
to withdraw, via the Land Department, public lands, both mineral
and non-mineral, from private acquisition, Congress having never
repudiated the practice.

Military Power in Law Enforcement: The Posse Comitatus
    “Whenever the President considers that unlawful obstructions,
combinations, or assemblages, or rebellion against the authority of
the United States, make it impracticable to enforce the laws of the
United States in any State or Territory by the ordinary course of
judicial proceedings, he may call into Federal service such of the
militia of any State, and use such of the armed forces, as he consid-
ers necessary to enforce those laws or to suppress the rebellion.”
     “The President, by using the militia or the armed forces, or both
. . . shall take such measures as he considers necessary to sup-
press, in a State, any insurrection, domestic violence, unlawful com-
bination, or conspiracy, if it—(1) so hinders the execution of the laws
of that State, and of the United States within the State, that any
part or class of its people is deprived of a right, privilege, immu-
nity, or protection named in the Constitution and secured by law
. . . .” 722
    These quoted provisions of the United States Code consolidate
a course of legislation that began at the time of the Whiskey Rebel-

     720 135 U.S. at 64. The phrase, “a law of the United States,” came from the Act

of March 2, 1833 (4 Stat. 632). However, in the Act of June 25, 1948, 62 Stat. 965,
28 U.S.C. § 2241(c)(2), the phrase is replaced by the term, “an act of Congress,” thereby
eliminating the basis of the holding in Neagle.
     721 236 U.S. 459 (1915). See also Mason v. United States, 260 U.S. 545 (1923).
     722 10 U.S.C. §§ 332, 333. The provisions were invoked by President Eisenhower

when he dispatched troops to Little Rock, Arkansas, in 1957 to counter resistance
to Federal district court orders pertaining to desegregation of certain public schools
in the Little Rock School District. Although the validity of his action was never ex-
pressly reviewed, the Court, in Cooper v. Aaron, 358 U.S. 1, 4, 18–19 (1958), re-
jected a contention advanced by critics of the legality of his conduct, namely, that
the President’s constitutional duty to see to the faithful execution of the laws, as
implemented by the provisions quoted above, does not permit the use of troops to
enforce decrees of federal courts, because the latter are not statutory enactments,
which alone are comprehended within the phrase, “laws of the United States.” Ac-
cording to the Court, a judicial decision interpreting a constitutional provision, spe-
cifically “the interpretation of the Fourteenth Amendment enunciated by this Court
in the Brown case [Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S. 483 (1954)] is the su-
preme law of the land, and Art. VI of the Constitution makes it of binding effect on
the States . . . .”
