The Doctrine of Political Questions
    It is not within the province of the courts to inquire into the
policy underlying action taken by the “political departments”—
Congress and the President—in the exercise of their conceded pow-
ers. This commonplace maxim is, however, sometimes given an en-
larged application, so as to embrace questions as to the existence
of facts and even questions of law, that the Court would normally
regard as falling within its jurisdiction. Such questions are termed
“political questions,” and are especially common in the field of for-
eign relations. The leading case is Foster v. Neilson,654 where the
matter in dispute was the validity of a grant made by the Spanish
Government in 1804 of land lying to the east of the Mississippi River,
and in which there was also raised the question whether the re-
gion between the Perdido and Mississippi Rivers belonged in 1804
to Spain or the United States.
     Chief Justice Marshall’s opinion for the Court held that the Court
was bound by the action of the political departments, the President
and Congress, in claiming the land for the United States. He wrote:
“If those departments which are intrusted with the foreign inter-
course of the nation, which assert and maintain its interests against
foreign powers, have unequivocally asserted its right of dominion
over a country of which it is in possession, and which it claims un-
der a treaty; if the legislature has acted on the construction thus
asserted, it is not in its own courts that this construction is to be
denied. A question like this, respecting the boundaries of nations,
is, as has been truly said, more a political than a legal question,
and in its discussion, the courts of every country must respect the
pronounced will of the legislature.” 655
     The doctrine thus clearly stated is further exemplified, with par-
ticular reference to presidential action, by Williams v. Suffolk Ins.
Co.656 In this case the underwriters of a vessel which had been con-
fiscated by the Argentine Government for catching seals off the Falk-
land Islands, contrary to that Government’s orders, sought to es-
cape liability by showing that the Argentinian Government was the
sovereign over these islands and that, accordingly, the vessel had
been condemned for willful disregard of legitimate authority. The
Court decided against the company on the ground that the Presi-
dent had taken the position that the Falkland Islands were not a
part of Argentina. “[C]an there be any doubt, that when the execu-
tive branch of the government, which is charged with our foreign
   654 27 U.S. (2 Pet.) 253 (1829).
   655 27 U.S. at 309.
   656 38 U.S. (13 Pet.) 415 (1839).
