       mittee adopted as one of its Articles of Impeachment the refusal of
       the President to honor its subpoenas.612 Congress has considered
       bills by which Congress would authorize congressional committees
       to go to court to enforce their subpoenas; the bills did not purport
       to define executive privilege, although some indicate a standard by
       which the federal court is to determine whether the material sought
       is lawfully being withheld from Congress.613 The controversy gives
       little indication at the present time of abating, and it may be as-
       sumed that whenever the Executive and Congress are controlled by
       different political parties there will be persistent conflicts. One may
       similarly assume that the alteration of this situation would only
       reduce but not remove the disagreements.

    Clause 3. The President shall have Power to fill up all Va-
cancies that may happen during the Recess of the Senate, by
granting Commissions which shall expire at the End of their next
Session.

                                RECESS APPOINTMENTS
           The Recess Appointments Clause was adopted by the Constitu-
       tional Convention without dissent and without debate regarding the
       intent and scope of its terms. In Federalist No. 67, Alexander Ham-
       ilton refers to the recess appointment power as “nothing more than
       a supplement . . . for the purpose of establishing an auxiliary method
       of appointment, in cases to which the general method was inad-
       equate.” It is generally accepted that the clause was designed to
       enable the President to ensure the unfettered operation of the gov-
       ernment during periods when the Senate was not in session and
       therefore unable to perform its advice and consent function. In ad-
       dition to fostering administrative continuity, Presidents have exer-
       cised authority under the Recess Appointments Clause for political
       purposes, appointing officials who might have difficulty securing Sen-
       ate confirmation.

            612 President Nixon’s position was set out in a June 9, 1974, letter to the Chair-

       man of the House Judiciary Committee. 10 Wkly. Comp. Pres. Docs. 592 (1974). The
       impeachment article and supporting material are set out in H. REP. NO. 93–1305,
       93d Cong., 2d Sess. (1974).
            613 For consideration of various proposals by which Congress might proceed, see

       Hamilton & Grabow, A Legislative Proposal for Resolving Executive Privilege Dis-
       putes Precipitated by Congressional Subpoenas, 21 HARV. J. LEGIS. 145 (1984); Brand
       & Connelly, Constitutional Confrontations: Preserving a Prompt and Orderly Means
       by Which Congress May Enforce Investigative Demands Against Executive Branch
       Officials, 36 CATH. U. L. REV. 71 (1986); Note, The Conflict Between Executive Privi-
       lege and Congressional Oversight: The Gorsuch Controversy, 1983 DUKE L. J. 1333.
