    “The broad statement that the Federal Government can exer-
cise no powers except those specifically enumerated in the Consti-
tution, and such implied powers as are necessary and proper to carry
into effect the enumerated powers, is categorically true only in re-
spect of our internal affairs. In that field, the primary purpose of
the Constitution was to carve from the general mass of legislative
powers then possessed by the states such portions as it was thought
desirable to vest in the federal government, leaving those not in-
cluded in the enumeration still in the states. . . . That this doc-
trine applies only to powers which the states had, is self evident.
And since the states severally never possessed international pow-
ers, such powers could not have been carved from the mass of state
powers but obviously were transmitted to the United States from
some other source. . . .”
     “As a result of the separation from Great Britain by the colo-
nies acting as a unit, the powers of external sovereignty passed from
the Crown not to the colonies severally, but to the colonies in their
collective and corporate capacity as the United States of America. . . .”
    “It results that the investment of the Federal Government with
the powers of external sovereignty did not depend upon the affirma-
tive grants of the Constitution. The powers to declare and wage war,
to conclude peace, to make treaties, to maintain diplomatic rela-
tions with other sovereignties, if they had never been mentioned in
the Constitution, would have been vested in the Federal Govern-
ment as necessary concomitants of nationality. . . .”
    “Not only . . . is the federal power over external affairs in ori-
gin and essential character different from that over internal af-
fairs, but participation in the exercise of power is significantly lim-
ited. In this vast external realm, with its important, complicated,
delicate and manifold problems, the President alone has the power
to speak or listen as a representative of the nation.” 29
    Scholarly criticism of Justice Sutherland’s reasoning has dem-
onstrated that his essential postulate, the passing of sovereignty in
external affairs directly from the British Crown to the colonies as a
collective unit, is in error.30 Dicta in later cases controvert the con-
clusions drawn in Curtiss-Wright about the foreign relations power
being inherent rather than subject to the limitations of the del-
    29  299 U.S. at 315–16, 318, 319.
    30  Levitan, The Foreign Relations Power: An Analysis of Mr. Justice Sutherland’s
Theory, 55 YALE L. J. 467 (1946); Patterson, In re United States v. Curtiss-Wright
Corp., 22 TEXAS L. REV. 286, 445 (1944); Lofgren, United States v. Curtiss-Wright Cor-
poration: An Historical Reassessment, 83 YALE L. J. 1 (1973), reprinted in C. LOFGREN,
GOVERNMENT FROM REFLECTION AND CHOICE: CONSTITUTIONAL ESSAYS ON WAR, FOREIGN RELA-
TIONS, AND FEDERALISM 167 (1986).
