a German alien enemy after the cessation of hostilities with Ger-
many. Said Justice Frankfurter for the Court: “War does not cease
with a cease-fire order, and power to be exercised by the President
such as that conferred by the Act of 1798 is a process which begins
when war is declared but is not exhausted when the shooting
stops. . . . The Court would be assuming the functions of the politi-
cal agencies of the government to yield to the suggestion that the
unconditional surrender of Germany and the disintegration of the
Nazi Reich have left Germany without a government capable of ne-
gotiating a treaty of peace. It is not for us to question a belief by
the President that enemy aliens who were justifiably deemed fit sub-
ject for internment during active hostilities do not lose their po-
tency for mischief during the period of confusion and conflict which
is characteristic of a state of war even when the guns are silent
but the peace of Peace has not come. These are matters of political
judgment for which judges have neither technical competence nor
official responsibility.” 669
     The Court reviewed the political question doctrine in Baker v.
Carr.670 There, Justice Brennan noted and elaborated the factors
which go into making a question political and inappropriate for ju-
dicial decision.671 On the matter at hand, he said: “There are sweep-
ing statements to the effect that all questions touching foreign rela-
tions are political questions. Not only does resolution of such issues
     669 335 U.S. at 167, 170. Four Justices dissented, by Justice Black, who said:

“The Court . . . holds, as I understand its opinion, that the Attorney General can
deport him whether he is dangerous or not. The effect of this holding is that any
unnaturalized person, good or bad, loyal or disloyal to this country, if he was a citi-
zen of Germany before coming here, can be summarily seized, interned and de-
ported from the United States by the Attorney General, and that no court of the
United States has any power whatever to review, modify, vacate, reverse, or in any
manner affect the Attorney General’s deportation order. . . . I think the idea that
we are still at war with Germany in the sense contemplated by the statute control-
ling here is a pure fiction. Furthermore, I think there is no act of Congress which
lends the slightest basis to the claim that after hostilities with a foreign country
have ended the President or the Attorney General, one or both, can deport aliens
without a fair hearing reviewable in the courts. On the contrary, when this very
question came before Congress after World War I in the interval between the Armi-
stice and the conclusion of formal peace with Germany, Congress unequivocally re-
quired that enemy aliens be given a fair hearing before they could be deported.” Id.
at 174–75. See also Woods v. Cloyd W. Miller Co., 333 U.S. 138 (1948), where the
continuation of rent control under the Housing and Rent Act of 1947, enacted after
the termination of hostilities, was unanimously held to be a valid exercise of the
war power, but the constitutional question raised was asserted to be a proper one
for the Court. Said Justice Jackson, in a concurring opinion: “Particularly when the
war power is invoked to do things to the liberties of people, or to their property or
economy that only indirectly affect conduct of the war and do not relate to the man-
agement of the war itself, the constitutional basis should be scrutinized with care.”
Id. at 146–47.
     670 369 U.S. 186 (1962).
     671 369 U.S. at 217.
