with respect to inferior officers in order to promote accountability.
“The Framers understood . . . that by limiting the appointment power,
they could ensure that those who wielded it were accountable to
political force and the will of the people. . . . The Appointments Clause
prevents Congress from distributing power too widely by limiting
the actors in whom Congress may vest the power to appoint. The
Clause reflects our Framers’ conclusion that widely distributed ap-
pointment power subverts democratic government. Given the inexo-
rable presence of the administrative state, a holding that every or-
gan in the executive Branch is a department would multiply the
number of actors eligible to appoint.” 516
     Yet, even agreed on the principle, the Freytag Court split 5-to-4
on the reason for the permissibility of the Chief Judge of the Tax
Court to appoint special trial judges. The entire Court agreed that
the Tax Court had to be either a “department” or a “court of law”
in order for the authority to be exercised by the Chief Judge, and
it unanimously agreed that the statutory provision was constitu-
tional. But there agreement ended. The majority was of the opin-
ion that the Tax Court could not be a department, but it was un-
clear what those Justices thought a department comprehended.
Seemingly, it started from the premise that departments were those
parts of the executive establishment called departments and headed
by a cabinet officer.517 Yet, the Court continued immediately to say:
“Confining the term ‘Heads of Departments’ in the Appointments
Clause to executive divisions like the Cabinet-level departments con-
strains the distribution of the appointment power just as the [IRS]
Commissioner’s interpretation, in contrast, would diffuse it. The
Cabinet-level departments are limited in number and easily identi-
fied. The heads are subject to the exercise of political oversight and
share the President’s accountability to the people.” 518 The use of
the word “like” in this passage suggests that it is not just Cabinet-
headed departments that are departments but also entities that are
similar to them in some way, and its reservation of the validity of
investing appointing power in the heads of some unnamed entities,
as well as its observation that the term “Heads of Departments”
does not embrace “inferior commissioners and bureau officers” all
contribute to an amorphous conception of the term.519 In the end,
the Court sustained the challenged provision by holding that the
    516  Freytag v. Commissioner, 501 U.S. 868, 884–85 (1991).
    517  501 U.S. at 886 (citing Germaine and Burnap, the Opinion Clause (Article
II, § 2), and the 25th Amendment, which, in its § 4, referred to “executive depart-
ments” in a manner that reached only cabinet-level entities). But compare id. at 915–22
(Justice Scalia concurring).
     518 501 U.S. at 886 (emphasis added).
     519 501 U.S. at 886–88. Compare id. at 915–19 (Justice Scalia concurring).
