Preventive Martial Law
    The question of executive power in the presence of civil disor-
der is dealt with in modern terms in Moyer v. Peabody,729 to which
the Debs case 730 may be regarded as an addendum. Moyer, a labor
leader, sued Peabody for having ordered his arrest during a labor
dispute that had occurred while Peabody was governor of Colorado.
Speaking for a unanimous Court (with one Justice absent), Justice
Holmes said: “Of course the plaintiff ’s position is that he has been
deprived of his liberty without due process of law. But it is familiar
that what is due process of law depends on circumstances. It var-
ies with the subject-matter and the necessities of the situa-
tion. . . . The facts that we are to assume are that a state of insur-
rection existed and that the Governor, without sufficient reason but
in good faith, in the course of putting the insurrection down held
the plaintiff until he thought that he safely could release him.”
    “. . . In such a situation we must assume that he had a right
under the state constitution and laws to call out troops, as was held
by the Supreme Court of the State. . . . That means that he shall
make the ordinary use of the soldiers to that end; that he may kill
persons who resist and, of course, that he may use the milder mea-
sure of seizing the bodies of those whom he considers to stand in
the way of restoring peace. Such arrests are not necessarily for pun-
ishment, but are by way of precaution to prevent the exercise of
hostile power. So long as such arrests are made in good faith and
in the honest belief that they are needed in order to head the insur-
rection off, the Governor is the final judge and cannot be subjected
to an action after he is out of office on the ground that he had not
reasonable ground for his belief.”
    “. . . When it comes to a decision by the head of the State upon
a matter involving its life, the ordinary rights of individuals must
yield to what he deems the necessities of the moment. Public dan-
ger warrants the substitution of executive process for judicial pro-
cess.” 731
    The Debs Case.—The Debs case of 1895 arose out of a railway
strike which had caused the President to dispatch troops to Chi-
cago the previous year. Coincidentally with this move, the United
States district attorney stationed there, acting upon orders from Wash-
ington, obtained an injunction from the United States circuit court
forbidding the strike because of its interference with the mails and
    729  212 U.S. 78 (1909).
    730  In re Debs, 158 U.S. 564 (1895).
     731 212 U.S. at 84–85. See also Sterling v. Constantin, 287 U.S. 378 (1932), which

endorses Moyer v. Peabody, while emphasizing the fact that it applies only to a con-
dition of disorder.
