sense. In the same way the not infrequent practice of Presidents of
appointing Members of Congress as commissioners to negotiate trea-
ties and agreements with foreign governments may be regularized,
notwithstanding the provision of Article I, § 6, clause 2 of the Con-
stitution, which provides that “no Senator or Representative shall
. . . be appointed to any civil Office under the Authority of the United
States, which shall have been created,” during his term; and no of-
ficer of the United States, “shall be a Member of either House dur-
ing his Continuance in Office.” 503 The Treaty of Peace with Spain,
the treaty to settle the Bering Sea controversy, the treaty establish-
ing the boundary line between Canada and Alaska, were negoti-
ated by commissions containing Senators and Representatives.

Appointments and Congressional Regulation of Offices
    It has never been questioned that the Constitution distin-
guishes between the creation of an office and appointment thereto.
The former is by law and takes place by virtue of Congress’s power
to pass all laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution
the powers which the Constitution confers upon the government of
the United States and its departments and officers.504 As an inci-
dent to the establishment of an office, Congress has also the power
to determine the qualifications of the officer and in so doing neces-
sarily limits the range of choice of the appointing power. First and
last, it has laid down a great variety of qualifications, depending
on citizenship, residence, professional attainments, occupational ex-
perience, age, race, property, sound habits, and so on. It has re-
quired that appointees be representative of a political party, of an
industry, of a geographic region, or of a particular branch of the
Government. It has confined the President’s selection to a small num-
ber of persons to be named by others.505 Indeed, it has contrived at
    503  See 2 G. HOAR, AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SEVENTY YEARS 48–51 (1903).
    504  However, “Congress’s power . . . is inevitably bounded by the express lan-
guage of Article II, cl. 2, and unless the method it provides comports with the latter,
the holders of those offices will not be ‘Officers of the United States.’ ” Buckley v.
Valeo, 424 U.S. 1, 138–39 (1976) (quoted in Freytag v. Commissioner, 501 U.S. 868,
883 (1991)). The designation or appointment of military judges, who are “officers of
the United States,” does not violate the Appointments Clause. The judges are se-
lected by the Judge Advocate General of their respective branch of the Armed Forces.
These military judges, however, were already commissioned officers who had been
appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate, so that their
designation simply and permissibly was an assignment to them of additional duties
that did not need a second formal appointment. Weiss v. United States, 510 U.S.
163 (1994). However, the appointment of civilian judges to the Coast Guard Court
of Military Review was impermissible and their actions were not salvageable under
the de facto officer doctrine. Ryder v. United States, 515 U.S. 177 (1995).
     505 See Myers v. United States, 272 U.S. 52, 264–74 (1926) (Justice Brandeis

dissenting). Chief Justice Taft in the opinion of the Court in Myers readily recog-
nized the legislative power of Congress to establish offices, determine their func-
