     “It is, of course, true that even treaties with foreign nations will
be carefully construed so as not to derogate from the authority and
jurisdiction of the States of this nation unless clearly necessary to
effectuate the national policy. . . . But state law must yield when
it is inconsistent with, or impairs the policy or provisions of, a treaty
or of an international compact or agreement. . . . Then, the power
of a State to refuse enforcement of rights based on foreign law which
runs counter to the public policy of the forum . . . must give way
before the superior Federal policy evidenced by a treaty or interna-
tional compact or agreement. . . .”
     “The action of New York in this case amounts in substance to a
rejection of a part of the policy underlying recognition by this na-
tion of Soviet Russia. Such power is not accorded a State in our
constitutional system. To permit it would be to sanction a danger-
ous invasion of Federal authority. For it would ‘imperil the ami-
cable relations between governments and vex the peace of nations.’
. . . It would tend to disturb that equilibrium in our foreign rela-
tions which the political departments of our national government
has diligently endeavored to establish. . . .”
    “No State can rewrite our foreign policy to conform to its own
domestic policies. Power over external affairs is not shared by the
States; it is vested in the national government exclusively. It need
not be so exercised as to conform to state laws or state policies,
whether they be expressed in constitutions, statutes, or judicial de-
crees. And the policies of the States become wholly irrelevant to ju-
dicial inquiry when the United States, acting within its constitu-
tional sphere, seeks enforcement of its foreign policy in the courts.” 474
    This recognition of the preemptive reach of executive agree-
ments was an element in the movement for a constitutional amend-
ment in the 1950s to limit the President’s powers in this field, but
that movement failed.475



    474  315 U.S. at 229–31, 233–34.
    475  There were numerous variations in language for the Bricker Amendment,
but typical was § 3 of S.J. Res. 1, as reported by the Senate Judiciary Committee,
83d Congress, 1st Sess. (1953), which provided: “Congress shall have power to regu-
late all executive and other agreements with any foreign power or international or-
ganization. All such agreements shall be subject to the limitations imposed on trea-
ties by this article.” The limitation relevant on this point was in § 2, which provided:
“A treaty shall become effective as internal law in the United States only through
legislation which would be valid in the absence of treaty.”
