often be for the President to order the District Attorney to discon-
tinue prosecution. The District Attorney might refuse to obey the
President’s order; and if he did refuse, the prosecution, while he
remained in office, would still go on; because the President himself
could give no order to the court or to the clerk to make any particu-
lar entry. He could only act through his subordinate officer, the Dis-
trict Attorney, who is responsible to him and who holds his office at
his pleasure. And if that officer still continues a prosecution which
the President is satisfied ought not to continue, the removal of the
disobedient officer and the substitution of one more worthy in his
place would enable the President through him faithfully to execute
the law. And it is for this among other reasons that the power of
removing the District Attorney resides in the President.” 717

The President as Law Interpreter
     The power accruing to the President from his function of law
interpretation preparatory to law enforcement is daily illustrated
in relation to such statutes as the Anti-Trust Acts, the Taft-Hartley
Act, the Internal Security Act, and many lesser statutes. Nor is this
the whole story. Not only do all presidential regulations and orders
based on statutes that vest power in him or on his own constitu-
tional powers have the force of law, provided they do not trans-
gress the Court’s reading of such statutes or of the Constitution,718
but he sometimes makes law in a more special sense. In the fa-
mous Neagle case,719 an order of the Attorney General to a United
States marshal to protect a Justice of the Supreme Court whose
life has been threatened by a suitor was attributed to the Presi-
dent and held to be “a law of the United States” in the sense of
section 753 of the Revised Statutes, and as such to afford basis for
a writ of habeas corpus transferring the marshal, who had killed
the attacker, from state to national custody. Speaking for the Court,
Justice Miller inquired: “Is this duty [the duty of the President to
take care that the laws be faithfully executed] limited to the enforce-
ment of acts of Congress or of treaties of the United States accord-
ing to their express terms, or does it include the rights, duties and
obligations growing out of the Constitution itself, our international
relations, and all the protection implied by the nature of the gov-
      717 B. WYMAN, THE PRINCIPLES OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW GOVERNING THE RELATIONS OF

PUBLIC OFFICERS 231–32 (1903).
      718 United States v. Eliason, 41 U.S. (16 Pet.) 291, 301–02 (1842); Kurtz v. Mof-

fitt, 115 U.S. 487, 503 (1885); Smith v. Whitney, 116 U.S. 167, 180–81 (1886). For
an analysis of the approach to determining the validity of presidential, or other ex-
ecutive, regulations and orders under purported congressional delegations or im-
plied executive power, see Chrysler Corp. v. Brown, 441 U.S. 281, 301–16 (1979).
      719 In re Neagle, 135 U.S. 1 (1890).
