partment’s earlier contention, following Buckley v. Valeo, that the
execution of the laws is an executive function that may be carried
out only by persons appointed pursuant to the Appointments Clause,
thus precluding delegations to state and local officers and to pri-
vate parties (as in qui tam actions), as well as providing glosses on
the Take Care Clause (Article II, § 3) and other provisions of the
Constitution. Whether these memoranda signal long-term change
depends on several factors, including whether they are adhered to
by subsequent administrations.
     In striking down the congressional veto as circumventing Ar-
ticle I’s bicameralism and presentment requirements attending the
exercise of legislative power, the Court also suggested in INS v.
Chadha 46 that the particular provision in question, involving veto
of the Attorney General’s decision to suspend deportation of an alien,
in effect allowed Congress impermissible participation in execution
of the laws.47 And, in Bowsher v. Synar,48 the Court held that Con-
gress had invalidly vested executive functions in a legislative branch
official. Underlying both decisions was the premise, stated in Chief
Justice Burger’s opinion of the Court in Chadha, that “the powers
delegated to the three Branches are functionally identifiable,” dis-
tinct, and definable.49 In a standing-to-sue case, Justice Scalia for
the Court denied that Congress could by statute confer standing on
citizens not suffering particularized injuries to sue the Federal Gov-
ernment to compel it to carry out a duty imposed by Congress, ar-
guing that to permit this course would be to allow Congress to di-
vest the President of his obligation under the Take Care Clause and


and Congress (May 7, 1996). The principles laid down in the memoranda depart
significantly from previous positions of the Department of Justice. For conflicting
versions of the two approaches, see Constitutional Implications of the Chemical Weap-
ons Convention: Hearings on the Constitution, Federalism, and Property Rights Be-
fore the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee, 104th Cong., 2d Sess. (1996), 11–26, 107–10
(Professor John C. Woo), 80–106 (Deputy Assistant Attorney General Richard L. Shif-
frin).
     46 462 U.S. 919 (1983).
     47 Although Chief Justice Burger’s opinion of the Court described the veto deci-

sion as legislative in character, it also seemingly alluded to the executive nature of
the decision to countermand the Attorney General’s application of delegated power
to a particular individual. “Disagreement with the Attorney General’s decision on
Chadha’s deportation . . . involves determinations of policy that Congress can imple-
ment in only one way . . . . Congress must abide by its delegation of authority until
that delegation is legislatively altered or revoked.” 462 U.S. at 954–55. The Court’s
uncertainty is explicitly spelled out in Metropolitan Washington Airports Auth. v.
Citizens for the Abatement of Aircraft Noise, 501 U.S. 252 (1991).
     48 478 U.S. 714 (1986).
     49 462 U.S. at 951.
