        Ad Interim Designations
             To be distinguished from the power to make recess appoint-
        ments is the power of the President to make temporary or ad in-
        terim designations of officials to perform the duties of other absent
        officials. Usually such a situation is provided for in advance by a
        statute that designates the inferior officer who is to act in place of
        his immediate superior. But, in the absence of such a provision, both
        theory and practice concede the President the power to make the
        designation.626

    SECTION 3. He shall from time to time give to the Congress
Information on the State of the Union, and recommend to their
Consideration such Measures as he shall judge necessary and
expedient; he may, on extraordinary Occasions, convene both
Houses, or either of them, and in Case of Disagreement be-
tween them, with Respect to the Time of Adjournment, he may
adjourn them to such Time as he shall think proper; he shall
receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers; he shall take
Care that the Laws be faithfully executed, and shall Commis-
sion all the Officers of the United States.

                     LEGISLATIVE ROLE OF THE PRESIDENT
            The clause directing the President to report to the Congress on
        the state of the union imposes a duty rather than confers a power,
        and is the formal basis of the President’s legislative leadership. The
        President’s legislative role has attained great proportions since 1900.
        This development, however, represents the play of political and so-
        cial forces rather than any pronounced change in constitutional in-
        terpretation. Especially is it the result of the rise of parties and
        the accompanying recognition of the President as party leader, of
        the appearance of the National Nominating Convention and the Party
        Platform, and of the introduction of the Spoils System, an ever pres-
        ent help to Presidents in times of troubled relations with Con-
        gress.627 It is true that certain pre-Civil War Presidents, mostly of
        Whig extraction, professed to entertain nice scruples on the score
            626 See the following Ops. Att’y Gen.: 6:358 (1854); 12:32, 41 (1866); 25:258 (1904);

        28:95 (1909); 38:298 (1935).
            627 N. SMALL, SOME PRESIDENTIAL INTERPRETATIONS OF THE PRESIDENCY (1932); W. BINKLEY,

        THE PRESIDENT AND CONGRESS (2d ed. 1962); E. Corwin, supra, chs. 1, 7.
