in 1897, made an elaborate investigation of the whole subject and
came to the following conclusions as to this power: “The ‘recogni-
tion’ of independence or belligerency of a foreign power, technically
speaking, is distinctly a diplomatic matter. It is properly evidenced
either by sending a public minister to the government thus recog-
nized, or by receiving a public minister therefrom. The latter is the
usual and proper course. Diplomatic relations with a new power are
properly, and customarily inaugurated at the request of that power,
expressed through an envoy sent for the purpose. The reception of
this envoy, as pointed out, is the act of the President alone. The
next step, that of sending a public minister to the nation thus rec-
ognized, is primarily the act of the President. The Senate can take
no part in it at all, until the President has sent in a nomination.
Then it acts in its executive capacity, and, customarily, in ‘execu-
tive session.’ The legislative branch of the government can exercise
no influence over this step except, very indirectly, by withholding
appropriations. . . . Nor can the legislative branch of the govern-
ment hold any communications with foreign nations. The executive
branch is the sole mouthpiece of the nation in communication with
foreign sovereignties.”
     “Foreign nations communicate only through their respective ex-
ecutive departments. Resolutions of their legislative departments upon
diplomatic matters have no status in international law. In the de-
partment of international law, therefore, properly speaking, a Con-
gressional recognition of belligerency or independence would be a
nullity. . . . Congress can help the Cuban insurgents by legislation
in many ways, but it cannot help them legitimately by mere decla-
rations, or by attempts to engage in diplomatic negotiations, if our
interpretation of the Constitution is correct. That it is correct . . .
[is] shown by the opinions of jurists and statesmen of the past.” 646
Congress was able ultimately to bundle a clause recognizing the in-
dependence of Cuba, as distinguished from its government, into the
declaration of war of April 11, 1898, against Spain. For the most
part, the sponsors of the clause defended it by the following line of
reasoning. Diplomacy, they said, was now at an end, and the Presi-
dent himself had appealed to Congress to provide a solution for the
Cuban situation. In response, Congress was about to exercise its
constitutional power of declaring war, and it has consequently the
right to state the purpose of the war which it was about to de-


   646   S. Doc. No. 56, 54th Congress, 2d Sess. (1897), 20–22.
