erty, cannot be anticipated and provided for; and the protection, to
be effectual or of any avail, may, not unfrequently, require the most
prompt and decided action. Under our system of Government, the
citizen abroad is as much entitled to protection as the citizen at
home. The great object and duty of Government is the protection of
the lives, liberty, and property of the people composing it, whether
abroad or at home; and any Government failing in the accomplish-
ment of the object, or the performance of the duty, is not worth pre-
serving.” 742
     This incident and this case were but two items in the 19th cen-
tury advance of the concept that the President had the duty and
the responsibility to protect American lives and property abroad
through the use of armed forces if deemed necessary.743 The duty
could be said to grow out of the inherent powers of the Chief Execu-
tive 744 or perhaps out of his obligation to “take Care that the Laws
be faithfully executed.” 745 Although there were efforts made at times
to limit this presidential power narrowly to the protection of per-
sons and property rather than to the promotion of broader national
interests,746 no such distinction was observed in practice and so grew
the concepts which have become the source of serious national con-
troversy in the 1960s and 1970s, the power of the President to use
troops abroad to observe national commitments and protect the na-
tional interest without seeking prior approval from Congress.

Congress and the President versus Foreign Expropriation
    Congress has asserted itself in one area of protection of United
States property abroad, making provision against uncompensated
expropriation of property belonging to United States citizens and
corporations. The problem of expropriation of foreign property and
the compensation to be paid therefor remains an unsettled area of
international law, of increasing importance because of the changes
and unsettled conditions following World War II.747 It has been the
position of the Executive Branch that just compensation is owed
all United States property owners dispossessed in foreign countries
and the many pre-World War II disputes were carried on between
the President and the Department of State and the nation in-
    742   8 Fed. Cas. at 112.
    743  See UNITED STATES SOLICITOR OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, RIGHT TO PROTECT CITI-
ZENS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES BY LANDING FORCES (3d rev. ed. 1934); M. OFFUTT, THE PROTEC-
TION OF CITIZENS ABROAD BY THE ARMED FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES (1928).
     744 Durand v. Hollins, 8 Fed. Cas. 111 (No. 4186) (C.C.S.D.N.Y. 1860).
     745 M. Offutt, supra at 5.
     746 E. Corwin, supra at 198–201.
     747 Cf. Metzger, Property in International Law, 50 VA. L. REV. 594 (1964); Vaughn,

Finding the Law of Expropriation: Traditional v. Quantitative Research, 2 TEXAS INTL.
L. FORUM 189 (1966).
