and an act passed both Houses on 6th May, 1796, appropriating a
large sum, twenty-five thousand dollars annually, for carrying it into
effect.” 500
    The precedent afforded by Humphreys’ appointment without ref-
erence to the Senate has since been multiplied many times,501 as
witness the mission of A. Dudley Mann to Hanover and other Ger-
man states in 1846, of the same gentleman to Hungary in 1849, of
Nicholas Trist to Mexico in 1848, of Commodore Perry to Japan in
1852, of J. H. Blount to Hawaii in 1893. The last named case is
perhaps the most extreme of all. Blount, who was appointed while
the Senate was in session but without its advice and consent, was
given “paramount authority” over the American resident minister
at Hawaii and was further empowered to employ the military and
naval forces of the United States, if necessary to protect American
lives and interests. His mission raised a vigorous storm of protest
in the Senate, but the majority report of the committee which was
created to investigate the constitutional question vindicated the Presi-
dent in the following terms: “A question has been made as to the
right of the President of the United States to dispatch Mr. Blount
to Hawaii as his personal representative for the purpose of seeking
the further information which the President believed was neces-
sary in order to arrive at a just conclusion regarding the state of
affairs in Hawaii. Many precedents could be quoted to show that
such power has been exercised by the President on various occa-
sions, without dissent on the part of Congress or the people of the
United States. . . . These precedents also show that the Senate of
the United States, though in session, need not be consulted as to
the appointment of such agents, . . . .” 502 The continued vitality of
the practice is attested by such names as Colonel House, the late
Norman H. Davis, who filled the role of “ambassador at large” for a
succession of administrations of both parties, Professor Philip Jes-
sup, Mr. Averell Harriman, and other “ambassadors at large” of the
Truman Administration, and Professor Henry Kissinger of the Nixon
Administration.
    How is the practice to be squared with the express words of
the Constitution? Apparently, by stressing the fact that such appoint-
ments or designations are ordinarily merely temporary and for spe-
cial tasks, and hence do not fulfill the tests of “office” in the strict
    500 11 T. BENTON, ABRIDGEMENT OF THE DEBATES OF CONGRESS 221 (1860).
    501 S. Misc. Doc, 109, 50th Congress, 1st Sess. (1888), 104.
    502 S. REP. NO. 227, 53d Congress, 2d Sess. (1894), 25. At the outset of our en-

trance into World War I President Wilson dispatched a mission to “Petrograd,” as it
was then called, without nominating the Members of it to the Senate. It was headed
by Mr. Elihu Root, with “the rank of ambassador,” while some of his associates bore
“the rank of envoy extraordinary.”
