that affects foreign relations.” 491 We must await further litigation
to see whether the Court employs this distinction.492

                 THE EXECUTIVE ESTABLISHMENT

Office
    “An office is a public station, or employment, conferred by the
appointment of government. The term embraces the ideas of ten-
ure, duration, emolument, and duties.” 493
    Ambassadors and Other Public Ministers.—The term “am-
bassadors and other public ministers,” comprehends “all officers hav-
ing diplomatic functions, whatever their title or designation.” 494 It
was originally assumed that such offices were established by the
Constitution itself, by reference to the Law of Nations, with the con-
sequence that appointments might be made to them whenever the
appointing authority—the President and Senate—deemed desir-
able.495 During the first sixty-five years of the Government, Con-
gress passed no act purporting to create any diplomatic rank, the
entire question of grades being left with the President. Indeed, dur-
ing the administrations of Washington, Adams and Jefferson, and
the first term of Madison, no mention occurs in any appropriation,
even of ministers of a specified rank at this or that place, but the
provision for the diplomatic corps consisted of so much money “for
the expenses of foreign intercourse,” to be expended at the discre-
tion of the President. In Madison’s second term, the practice was
introduced of allocating special sums to the several foreign mis-
sions maintained by the Government, but even then the legislative
provisions did not purport to curtail the discretion of the President
in any way in the choice of diplomatic agents.
    In 1814, however, when President Madison appointed, during a
recess of the Senate, the Commissioners who negotiated the Treaty
of Ghent, the theory on which the above legislation was based was
drawn into question. Inasmuch, it was argued, as these offices had
    491  539 U.S. at 419 n.11.
    492  Justice Ginsburg’s dissent in Garamendi, joined by the other three Justices,
suggested limiting Zschernig in a manner generally consistent with Justice Souter’s
distinction. Zschernig preemption, Justice Ginsburg asserted, “resonates most audi-
bly when a state action ‘reflects a state policy critical of foreign governments and
involve[s] sitting in judgment on them.’ ” 539 U.S. at 439 (quoting Henkin, supra, at
164). But Justice Ginsburg also voiced more general misgivings about judges’ becom-
ing “the expositors of the Nation’s foreign policy.” Id. at 442. In this context, see
Goldsmith, supra, at 1631, describing Zschernig preemption as “a form of the fed-
eral common law of foreign relations.”
     493 United States v. Hartwell, 73 U.S. (6 Wall.) 385, 393 (1868).
     494 7 Ops. Atty. Gen. 168 (1855).
     495 It was so assumed by Senator William Maclay. THE JOURNAL OF WILLIAM MACLAY

109–10 (E. Maclay ed., 1890).
