strict accuracy, termed his subordinates. What powers are implied
from this duty? In this connection, five categories of executive power
should be distinguished: first, there is that executive power which
the Constitution confers directly upon the President by the open-
ing clause of article II and, in more specific terms, by succeeding
clauses of the same article; secondly, there is the sum total of the
powers which acts of Congress at any particular time confer upon
the President; thirdly, there is the sum total of discretionary pow-
ers which acts of Congress at any particular time confer upon heads
of departments and other executive (“administrative”) agencies of
the National Government; fourthly, there is the power which stems
from the duty to enforce the criminal statutes of the United States;
finally, there are so-called “ministerial duties” which admit of no
discretion as to the occasion or the manner of their discharge. Three
principal questions arise: first, how does the President exercise the
powers which the Constitution or the statutes confer upon him; sec-
ond, in what relation does he stand by virtue of the Take Care Clause
to the powers of other executive or administrative agencies; third,
in what relation does he stand to the enforcement of the criminal
laws of the United States? 675
    Whereas the British monarch is constitutionally under the ne-
cessity of acting always through agents if his acts are to receive
legal recognition, the President is presumed to exercise certain of
his constitutional powers personally. In the words of an opinion by
Attorney General Cushing in 1855: “It may be presumed that he,
the man discharging the presidential office, and he alone, grants
reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States. . . .
So he, and he alone, is the supreme commander in chief of the Army
and Navy of the United States, and of the militia of the several
States when called into the actual service of the United States. That
is a power constitutionally inherent in the person of the President.
No act of Congress, no act even of the President himself, can, by
constitutional possibility, authorize or create any military officer not
subordinate to the President.” 676 Moreover, the obligation to act per-
sonally may be sometimes enlarged by statute, as, for example, by
the act organizing the President with other designated officials into
“an Establishment by name of the Smithsonian Institute.” Here, says
the Attorney General, “the President’s name of office is designatio
     675 In Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U.S. 555, 576–78 (1992), the Court

purported to draw from the Take Care Clause the principle that Congress could not
authorize citizens with only generalized grievances to sue to compel governmental
compliance with the law, inasmuch as permitting that would be “to permit Congress
to transfer from the President to the courts the Chief Executive’s most important
constitutional duty, to ‘take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.’ ” Id. at 577.
     676 7 Ops. Atty. Gen. 453, 464–65 (1855).
