is at the head of one of the three great coordinate departments of
the Government. He is Commander in Chief of the Army and the
Navy. . . . If the President is of the opinion that the relations of
this country with foreign nations are, or are likely to be endan-
gered, by action deemed by him inconsistent with a due neutrality,
it is his right and duty to protect such relations; and in doing so,
in the absence of any statutory restrictions, he may act through such
executive office or department as appears best adapted to effectu-
ate the desired end. . . . I do not hesitate, in view of the extraordi-
nary conditions existing, to advise that the President, through the
Secretary of the Navy or any appropriate department, close down,
or take charge of and operate, the plant . . . should he deem it nec-
essary in securing obedience to his proclamation of neutrality.” 739

     PROTECTION OF AMERICAN RIGHTS OF PERSON
              AND PROPERTY ABROAD
     In 1854, one Lieutenant Hollins, in command of a United States
warship, bombarded the town of Greytown, Nicaragua because of
the refusal of local authorities to pay reparations for an attack by
a mob on the United States consul.740 Upon his return to the United
States, Hollins was sued in a federal court by Durand for the value
of certain property which was alleged to have been destroyed in the
bombardment. His defense was based upon the orders of the Presi-
dent and Secretary of the Navy and was sustained by Justice Nel-
son, on circuit.741 “As the Executive head of the nation, the Presi-
dent is made the only legitimate organ of the General Government,
to open and carry on correspondence or negotiations with foreign
nations, in matters concerning the interests of the country or of its
citizens. It is to him, also, the citizens abroad must look for protec-
tion of person and of property, and for the faithful execution of the
laws existing and intended for their protection. For this purpose,
the whole Executive power of the country is placed in his hands,
under the Constitution, and the laws passed in pursuance thereof;
and different Departments of government have been organized, through
which this power may be most conveniently executed, whether by
negotiation or by force—a Department of State and a Department
of the Navy.”
    “Now, as it respects the interposition of the Executive abroad,
for the protection of the lives or property of the citizen, the duty
must, of necessity, rest in the discretion of the President. Acts of
lawless violence, or of threatened violence to the citizen or his prop-
   739 30 Ops. Atty. Gen. 291 (1914).
   740 7 J. MOORE, DIGEST OF INTERNATIONAL LAW 346–54 (1906).
   741 Durand v. Hollins, 8 Fed. Cas. 111 (No. 4186) (C.C.S.D.N.Y. 1860).
