clare.647 The recognition of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
in 1933 was an exclusively presidential act.
    The Power of Nonrecognition.—The potentialities of nonrec-
ognition were conspicuously illustrated by President Woodrow Wil-
son when he refused, early in 1913, to recognize Provisional Presi-
dent Huerta as the de facto government of Mexico, thereby contributing
materially to Huerta’s downfall the year following. At the same time,
Wilson announced a general policy of nonrecognition in the case of
any government founded on acts of violence, and while he observed
this rule with considerable discretion, he consistently refused to rec-
ognize the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and his successors
prior to President Franklin D. Roosevelt did the same. The refusal
of the Hoover administration to recognize the independence of the
Japanese puppet state of Manchukuo early in 1932 was based on
kindred grounds. Similarly, the nonrecognition of the Chinese Com-
munist Government from the Truman Administration to President
Nixon’s de facto recognition through a visit in 1972—not long after
the People’s Republic of China was admitted to the United Nations
and Taiwan excluded—proved to be an important part of American
foreign policy during the Cold War.648

Congressional Implementation of Presidential Policies
    No President was ever more jealous of his prerogative in the
realm of foreign relations than Woodrow Wilson. When, however,
strong pressure was brought to bear upon him by Great Britain re-
specting his Mexican Policy, he was constrained to go before Con-
gress and ask for a modification of the Panama Tolls Act of 1911,
which had also aroused British ire. Addressing Congress, he said,
“I ask this of you in support of the foreign policy of the Administra-
tion. I shall not know how to deal with other matters of even greater
delicacy and nearer consequence if you do not grant it to me in un-
grudging measure.” 649
    The fact is, of course, that Congress has enormous powers that
are indispensable to any foreign policy. In the long run, Congress
     647 Senator Nelson of Minnesota said: “The President has asked us to give him

the right to make war to expel the Spaniards from Cuba. He has asked us to put
that power in his hands; and when we are asked to grant that power—the highest
power given under the Constitution—we have the right, the intrinsic right, vested
in us by the Constitution, to say how and under what conditions and with what
allies that war-making power shall be exercised.” 31 CONG. REC. 3984 (1898).
     648 President Carter’s termination of the Mutual Defense Treaty with Taiwan,

which precipitated a constitutional and political debate, was perhaps an example of
nonrecognition or more appropriately derecognition. On recognition and nonrecogni-
tion policies in the post-World War II era, see Restatement, Foreign Relations, §§ 202,
203.
     649 1 MESSAGES AND PAPERS OF WOODROW WILSON 58 (A. Shaw ed., 1924).
