seized upon “the nature of the office” concept and applied it as a
corrective to the overbroad Myers holding.
     The Humphrey Case.—The material element of Humphrey’s
Executor was that Humphrey, a member of the Federal Trade Com-
mission, was on October 7, 1933, notified by President Roosevelt
that he was “removed” from office, the reason being their divergent
views of public policy. In due course, Humphrey sued for salary. Dis-
tinguishing the Myers case, Justice Sutherland, speaking for the unani-
mous Court, said: “A postmaster is an executive officer restricted to
the performance of executive functions. He is charged with no duty
at all related to either the legislative or judicial power. The actual
decision in the Myers case finds support in the theory that such an
office is merely one of the units in the executive department and,
hence, inherently subject to the exclusive and illimitable power of
removal by the Chief Executive, whose subordinate and aide he is. . . .
It goes no farther; much less does it include an officer who occupies
no place in the executive department and who exercises no part of
the executive power vested by the Constitution in the President.”
    “The Federal Trade Commission is an administrative body cre-
ated by Congress to carry into effect legislative policies embodied
in the statute. . . . Such a body cannot in any proper sense be char-
acterized as an arm or eye of the executive. Its duties are per-
formed without executive leave and, in the contemplation of the stat-
ute, must be free from executive control. . . . We think it plain under
the Constitution that illimitable power of removal is not possessed
by the President in respect of officers of the character of those just
named, [the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Federal Trade
Commission, the Court of Claims]. The authority of Congress, in
creating quasi-legislative or quasi-judicial agencies, to require them
to act in discharge of their duties independently of executive con-
trol cannot well be doubted; and that authority includes, as an ap-
propriate incident, power to fix the period during which they shall
continue in office, and to forbid their removal except for cause in
the meantime. For it is quite evident that one who holds his office
only during the pleasure of another, cannot be depended upon to
maintain an attitude of independence against the latter’s will. . . .”
     559 295 U.S. 602 (1935). The case is also styled Rathbun, Executor v. United States,

Humphrey having, like Myers before him, died in the course of his suit for salary.
Proponents of strong presidential powers long argued that Humphrey’s Executor, like
A.L.A. Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295 U.S. 495 (1935), both cases
argued and decided contemporaneously, reflected the anti-New Deal views of a con-
servative Court and wrongfully departed from Myers. See Scalia, Historical Anoma-
lies in Administrative Law, 1985 YEARBOOK OF THE SUPREME COURT HISTORICAL SOCIETY
103, 106–10. Now-Justice Scalia continues to adhere to his views and to Myers. Mor-
rison v. Olson, 487 U.S. 654, 697, 707–11, 723–27 (1988) (dissenting).
