pelled us to adopt the European practice with reference to an inter-
national agreement, which, aside from the indemnity question, was
almost entirely political in character . . . purely political treaties
are, under constitutional practice in Europe, usually made by the
executive alone. The situation in China, however, abundantly justi-
fied President McKinley in not submitting the protocol to the Sen-
ate. The remoteness of Peking, the jealousies between the allies,
and the shifting evasive tactics of the Chinese Government, would
have made impossible anything but an agreement on the spot.” 455
     It was also during this period that John Hay, as McKinley’s Sec-
retary of State, initiated his “Open Door” policy, by notes to Great
Britain, Germany, and Russia, which were soon followed by similar
notes to France, Italy and Japan. These in substance asked the re-
cipients to declare formally that they would not seek to enlarge their
respective interests in China at the expense of any of the others;
and all responded favorably.456 Then, in 1905, the first Roosevelt,
seeking to arrive at a diplomatic understanding with Japan, insti-
gated an exchange of opinions between Secretary of War Taft, then
in the Far East, and Count Katsura, amounting to a secret treaty,
by which the Roosevelt administration assented to the establish-
ment by Japan of a military protectorate in Korea.457 Three years
later, Secretary of State Root and the Japanese ambassador at Wash-
ington entered into the Root-Takahira Agreement to uphold the sta-
tus quo in the Pacific and maintain the principle of equal opportu-
nity for commerce and industry in China.458 Meantime, in 1907, by
a “Gentleman’s Agreement,” the Mikado’s government had agreed
to curb the emigration of Japanese subjects to the United States,
thereby relieving the Washington government from the necessity of
taking action that would have cost Japan loss of face. The final re-
sult of this series of executive agreements touching American rela-
tions in and with the Far East was the product of President Wil-
son’s diplomacy. This was the Lansing-Ishii Agreement, embodied
in an exchange of letters dated November 2, 1917, by which the
United States recognized Japan’s “special interests” in China, and
Japan assented to the principle of the Open Door in that coun-
try.459
    The Litvinov Agreement.—The executive agreement attained
its modern development as an instrument of foreign policy under
President Franklin D. Roosevelt, at times threatening to replace the
   455 1 W. Willoughby, supra at 539.
   456 W. McClure, supra at 98.
   457 Id. at 96–97.
   458 Id. at 98–99.
   459 Id. at 99–100.
