ited access to the ballot to the electors of the two major parties. In
the Court’s view, the system violated the Equal Protection Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment because it favored some and disfa-
vored others and burdened both the right of individuals to associ-
ate together to advance political beliefs and the right of qualified
voters to cast ballots for electors of their choice. For the Court, Jus-
tice Black denied that the language of Clause 2 immunized such
state practices from judicial scrutiny.77 Then, in Oregon v. Mitch-
ell,78 the Court upheld the power of Congress to reduce the voting
age in presidential elections 79 and to set a thirty-day durational
residency period as a qualification for voting in presidential elec-
tions.80 Although the Justices were divided on the reasons, the ra-
tionale emerging from this case, considered with Williams v. Rhodes,81
is that the Fourteenth Amendment limits state discretion in pre-
scribing the manner of selecting electors and that Congress in en-
forcing the Fourteenth Amendment 82 may override state practices
that violate that Amendment and may substitute standards of its
own.
    Whether state enactments implementing the authority to ap-
point electors are subject to the ordinary processes of judicial re-
view within a state, or whether placement of the appointment au-
thority in state legislatures somehow limits the role of state judicial
review, became an issue during the controversy over the Florida re-
count and the outcome of the 2000 presidential election. The Su-
preme Court did not resolve this issue, but in a remand to the Florida
Supreme Court, suggested that the role of state courts in applying

     77 “There, of course, can be no question but that this section does grant exten-

sive power to the States to pass laws regulating the selection of electors. But the
Constitution is filled with provisions that grant Congress or the States specific power
to legislate in certain areas; these granted powers are always subject to the limita-
tion that they may not be exercised in a way that violates other specific provisions
of the Constitution . . . . [It cannot be] thought that the power to select electors
could be exercised in such a way as to violate express constitutional commands that
specifically bar States from passing certain kinds of laws. [citing the Fifteenth, Nine-
teenth, and Twenty-fourth Amendments]. . . . Obviously we must reject the notion
that Art. II, § 1, gives the States power to impose burdens on the right to vote, where
such burdens are expressly prohibited in other constitutional provisions.” 393 U.S.
at 29.
     78 400 U.S. 112 (1970).
     79 The Court divided five-to-four on this issue. Of the majority, four relied on

Congress’s power under the Fourteenth Amendment, and Justice Black relied on im-
plied and inherent congressional powers to create and maintain a national govern-
ment. 400 U.S. at 119–24 (Justice Black announcing opinion of the Court).
     80 The Court divided eight-to-one on this issue. Of the majority, seven relied on

Congress’s power to enforce the Fourteenth Amendment, and Justice Black on im-
plied and inherent powers.
     81 393 U.S. 23 (1968).
     82 Cf. Fourteenth Amendment, § 5.
