votes on the different impeachment articles were not neatly di-
vided between legal and factual matters and therefore cannot be
said to have resolved the legal issues,870 several aspects of the pro-
ceedings merit consideration for possible precedential significance.
The House’s acceptance of the grand jury perjury charge and its
rejection of the civil deposition perjury charge may reflect a belief
among some members that perjury in the criminal context is more
serious than perjury in the civil context. Acceptance of the obstruc-
tion of justice charge may also have been based in part on an as-
sessment of the seriousness of the charge. On the other hand, the
House’s rejection of the article relating to President Clinton’s al-
leged non-cooperation with the Judiciary Committee’s interrogato-
ries can be contrasted with the House’s 1974 “acceptance” of the
Judiciary Committee’s report recommending 871 a similar type of charge
against President Nixon, and raises the issue of whether the differ-
ent circumstances (e.g., the relative importance of the information
sought, and the nature and extent of the responses) may account
for the different approaches. So too, the acquittal of President Clin-
ton on the perjury charge can be contrasted with convictions of Judges
Hastings and Nixon on perjury charges, and presents the issue of
whether different standards should govern Presidents and judges.
The role of the Independent Counsel in complying with a statutory
mandate to refer to the House “any substantial and credible infor-
mation . . . that may constitute grounds for an impeachment” occa-
sioned commentary.872 The relationship of censure to impeachment
was another issue that arose. Some members advocated censure of
President Clinton as an alternative to impeachment, as an alterna-
tive to trial, or as a post-trial means for those Senators who voted
to acquit to register their disapproval of the President’s conduct,
but there was no vote on censure.873

William Jefferson Clinton, President of the United States; Consideration of Articles
of Impeachment (Comm. Print 1998); and Impeachment of President William Jeffer-
son Clinton: The Evidentiary Record Pursuant to S. Res. 16, S. Doc. No. 106–3 (1999)
(21-volume set).
     870 Following the trial, a number of Senators placed statements in the record

explaining their votes. See 145 CONG. REC. S1462–1637 (daily ed. Feb. 12, 1999).
     871 Note that the Judiciary Committee deleted from the article a charge based

on President Clinton’s allegedly frivolous assertions of executive privilege in re-
sponse to subpoenas from the Office of Independent Counsel. Similarly, the Commit-
tee in 1974 distinguished between President Nixon’s refusal to respond to congres-
sional subpoenas and his refusal to respond to those of the special prosecutor; only
the refusal to provide information to the impeachment inquiry was cited as an im-
peachable abuse of power.
     872 The requirement was contained in the Ethics in Government Act, since lapsed,

and codified at 28 U.S.C. § 595(c). For commentary, see Ken Gormley, Impeachment
and the Independent Counsel: A Dysfunctional Union, 51 STAN. L. REV. 309 (1999).
     873 For analysis of the issue, see Jack Maskell, Censure of the President by Con-

gress, CRS Report for Congress 98–843.
