act as President, and such Officer shall act accordingly until the
Disability be removed, or a President shall be elected.
                            PRESIDENTIAL SUCCESSION
             When the President is disabled or is removed or has died, to
        what does the Vice President succeed: to the “powers and duties of
        the said office,” or to the office itself? There is a reasonable amount
        of evidence from the proceedings of the convention from which to
        conclude that the Framers intended the Vice President to remain
        Vice President and to exercise the powers of the President until, in
        the words of the final clause, “a President shall be elected.” None-
        theless, when President Harrison died in 1841, Vice President Ty-
        ler, after initial hesitation, took the position that he was automati-
        cally President,105 a precedent which has been followed subsequently
        and which is now permanently settled by section 1 of the Twenty-
        fifth Amendment. That Amendment also settles a number of other
        pressing questions with regard to presidential inability and succes-
        sion.

    Clause 7. The President shall, at stated Times, receive for
his Services, a Compensation which shall neither be encreased
nor diminished during the Period for which he shall have been
elected, and he shall not receive within that Period any other
Emolument from the United States, or any of them.
                      COMPENSATION AND EMOLUMENTS
            Clause 7 may be advantageously considered in the light of the
        rulings and learning arising out of parallel provision regarding ju-
        dicial salaries.106

    Clause 8. Before he enter on the Execution of his Office, he
shall take the following Oath or Affirmation:—“I do solemly swear
(or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the Office of President
of the United States, and will to the best of my Ability, pre-
serve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.”
            105 E. Corwin, supra at 53–59, 344 n.46.
            106 Cf. 13 Ops. Atty. Gen. 161 (1869), holding that a specific tax by the United
        States upon the salary of an officer, to be deducted from the amount which other-
        wise would by law be payable as such salary, is a diminution of the compensation to
        be paid to him which, in the case of the President, would be unconstitutional if the
        act of Congress levying the tax was passed during his official term.
