        Code, Tit. 17, § 145. Even though the victory of an independent can-
        didate for elector in Alabama cannot be anticipated, the state does
        offer the opportunity for the development of other strong political
        organizations where the need is felt for them by a sizable block of
        voters. Such parties may leave their electors to their own choice.”
            “We conclude that the Twelfth Amendment does not bar a politi-
        cal party from requiring the pledge to support the nominees of the
        National Convention. Where a state authorizes a party to choose
        its nominees for elector in a party primary and to fix the qualifica-
        tions for the candidates, we see no federal constitutional objection
        to the requirement of this pledge.” 98 Justice Jackson, with Justice
        Douglas, dissented: “It may be admitted that this law does no more
        than to make a legal obligation of what has been a voluntary gen-
        eral practice. If custom were sufficient authority for amendment of
        the Constitution by Court decree, the decision in this matter would
        be warranted. Usage may sometimes impart changed content to con-
        stitutional generalities, such as ‘due process of law,’ ‘equal protec-
        tion,’ or ‘commerce among the states.’ But I do not think powers or
        discretions granted to federal officials by the Federal Constitution
        can be forfeited by the Court for disuse. A political practice which
        has its origin in custom must rely upon custom for its sanctions.” 99

    Clause 5. No Person except a natural born Citizen, or a Citi-
zen of the United States, at the time of the Adoption of this Con-
stitution, shall be eligible to the Office of President; neither shall
any Person be eligible to that Office who shall not have at-
tained to the Age of thirty five Years, and been Fourteen Years
a Resident within the United States.
                                   QUALIFICATIONS
             All Presidents from Martin Van Buren on were born in the United
        States subsequent to the Declaration of Independence. The princi-
        pal issue with regard to the qualifications set out in this clause is
        whether a child born abroad of American parents is “a natural born
        citizen” in the sense of the clause. Such a child is a citizen as a
        consequence of statute.100 Whatever the term “natural born” means,
        it no doubt does not include a person who is “naturalized.” Thus,
        the answer to the question might be seen to turn on the interpreta-
        tion of the first sentence of the first section of the Fourteenth Amend-
           98 343 U.S. at 228–31.
           99 343 U.S. at 233.
           100 8 U.S.C. § 1401.
