ticket of which they run has been the subject of much debate.96 It
remains unsettled and the Supreme Court has touched on the is-
sue only once and then tangentially. In Ray v. Blair,97 the Court
upheld, against a challenge of invalidity under the Twelfth Amend-
ment, a rule of the Democratic Party of Alabama, acting under del-
egated power of the legislature, that required each candidate for
the office of presidential elector to take a pledge to support the nomi-
nees of the party’s convention for President and Vice President. The
state court had determined that the Twelfth Amendment, following
language of Clause 3, required that electors be absolutely free to
vote for anyone of their choice. Justice Reed wrote for the Court:
     “It is true that the Amendment says the electors shall vote by
ballot. But it is also true that the Amendment does not prohibit an
elector’s announcing his choice beforehand, pledging himself. The
suggestion that in the early elections candidates for electors—
contemporaries of the Founders—would have hesitated, because of
constitutional limitations, to pledge themselves to support party nomi-
nees in the event of their selection as electors is impossible to ac-
cept. History teaches that the electors were expected to support the
party nominees. Experts in the history of government recognize the
longstanding practice. Indeed, more than twenty states do not print
the names of the candidates for electors on the general election bal-
lot. Instead, in one form or another, they allow a vote for the presi-
dential candidate of the national conventions to be counted as a vote
for his party’s nominees for the electoral college. This long-
continued practical interpretation of the constitutional propriety of
an implied or oral pledge of his ballot by a candidate for elector as
to his vote in the electoral college weighs heavily in considering the
constitutionality of a pledge, such as the one here required, in the
primary.”
     “However, even if such promises of candidates for the electoral
college are legally unenforceable because violative of an assumed
constitutional freedom of the elector under the Constitution, Art.
II, § 1, to vote as he may choose in the electoral college, it would
not follow that the requirement of a pledge in the primary is uncon-
stitutional. A candidacy in the primary is a voluntary act of the ap-
plicant. He is not barred, discriminatorily, from participating but
must comply with the rules of the party. Surely one may volun-
tarily assume obligations to vote for a certain candidate. The state
offers him opportunity to become a candidate for elector on his own
terms, although he must file his declaration before the primary. Ala.
     96 At least thirteen states have statutes binding their electors, but none has been

tested in the courts.
     97 343 U.S. 214 (1952).
