either side. It is so laid down by the best writers of the law of na-
tions. A declaration of war by one country only, is not a mere chal-
lenge to be accepted or refused at pleasure by the other.’ ”
    “The battles of Palo Alto and Resaca de la Palma had been fought
before the passage of the act of Congress of May 13, 1846, which
recognized ‘a state of war as existing by the act of the Republic of
Mexico.’ This act not only provided for the future prosecution of the
war, but was itself a vindication and ratification of the Act of the
President in accepting the challenge without a previous formal dec-
laration of war by Congress.”
    “This greatest of civil wars was not gradually developed by popu-
lar commotion, tumultuous assemblies, or local unorganized insur-
rections. However long may have been its previous conception, it
nevertheless sprung forth suddenly from the parent brain, a Minerva
in the full panoply of war. The President was bound to meet it in
the shape it presented itself, without waiting for Congress to bap-
tize it with a name; and no name given to it by him or them could
change the fact. . . .”
    “Whether the President in fulfilling his duties, as Commander
in-chief, in suppressing an insurrection, has met with such armed
hostile resistance, and a civil war of such alarming proportions as
will compel him to accord to them the character of belligerents, is
a question to be decided by him, and this Court must be governed
by the decisions and acts of the political department of the govern-
ment to which this power was entrusted. ‘He must determine what
degree of force the crisis demands.’ The proclamation of blockade is
itself official and conclusive evidence to the Court that a state of
war existed which demanded and authorized a recourse to such a
measure, under the circumstances peculiar to the case.” 120
    Impact of the Prize Cases on World Wars I and II.—In brief,
the powers that may be claimed for the President under the
Commander-in-Chief Clause at a time of widespread insurrection
were equated with his powers under the clause at a time when the
United States is engaged in a formally declared foreign war.121 And,
because, especially in the early months of the Civil War, Lincoln
performed various acts, such as increasing the Army and Navy, that
admittedly fell within Congress’s constitutional province, it seems
to have been assumed during World Wars I and II that the position
of Commander-in-Chief carried with it the power to exercise like
powers practically at discretion, not merely in wartime but even at
a time when war became a strong possibility. No attention was given
   120   67 U.S. (2 Bl.) at 668–70.
   121   See generally, E. CORWIN, TOTAL WAR   AND THE   CONSTITUTION (1946).
