nonstrike, no-lock-out agreement and . . . to carry out the direc-
tives of the tribunal created under that agreement by the Com-
mander in Chief.” 129 Nor, the Court continued, had the later War
Labor Disputes Act vested War Labor Board orders with any greater
authority, with the result that they were still judicially unenforce-
able and unreviewable. Following this theory, the War Labor Board
was not an office wielding power, but a purely advisory body, such
as Presidents have frequently created in the past without the aid
or consent of Congress. Congress itself, nevertheless, both in its ap-
propriation acts and in other legislation, treated the presidential
agencies as in all respects offices.130
    Evacuation of the West Coast Japanese.—On February 19,
1942, President Roosevelt issued an executive order, “by virtue of
the authority vested in me as President of the United States, and
Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy,” providing, as a safe-
guard against subversion and sabotage, power for his military com-
manders to designate areas from which “any person” could be ex-
cluded or removed and to set up facilities for such persons elsewhere.131
Pursuant to this order, more than 112,000 residents of the Western
states, all of Japanese descent and more than two out of every three
of whom were natural-born citizens, were removed from their homes
and herded into temporary camps and later into “relocation cen-
ters” in several states.
    It was apparently the original intention of the Administration
to rely on the general principle of military necessity and the power
of the Commander-in-Chief in wartime as authority for the reloca-
tions. But before any action of importance was taken under the or-
der, Congress ratified and adopted it by the Act of March 21, 1942,132
by which it was made a misdemeanor to knowingly enter, remain
in, or leave prescribed military areas contrary to the orders of the
Secretary of War or of the commanding officer of the area. The cases
which subsequently arose in consequence of the order were decided
under the order plus the Act. The question at issue, said Chief Jus-
tice Stone for the Court, “is not one of Congressional power to del-
egate to the President the promulgation of the Executive Order, but
whether, acting in cooperation, Congress and the Executive have
constitutional . . . [power] to impose the curfew restriction here com-


   129 143 F.2d at 149.
   130 E. Corwin, supra at 244, 245, 459.
   131 E.O. 9066, 7 FED. REG. 1407 (1942).
   132 56 Stat. 173 (1942).
