the fact that Lincoln had asked Congress to ratify and confirm his
acts, which Congress promptly had,122 with the exception of his sus-
pension of habeas corpus, a power that many attributed to the Presi-
dent in the situation then existing, by virtue of his duty to take
care that the laws be faithfully executed.123 Nor was this the only
respect in which war or the approach of war was deemed to oper-
ate to enlarge the scope of power claimable by the President as
Commander-in-Chief in wartime.124

Presidential Theory of the Commander-in-Chiefship in
 World War II—And Beyond
   In his message to Congress of September 7, 1942, in which he
demanded that Congress forthwith repeal certain provisions of the
Emergency Price Control Act of the previous January 30th,125 Presi-
dent Roosevelt formulated his conception of his powers as “Com-
mander in Chief in wartime” as follows:
    “I ask the Congress to take this action by the first of October.
Inaction on your part by that date will leave me with an inescap-
able responsibility to the people of this country to see to it that the
war effort is no longer imperiled by threat of economic chaos.”
   “In the event that the Congress should fail to act, and act ad-
equately, I shall accept the responsibility, and I will act.”
   “At the same time that farm prices are stabilized, wages can
and will be stabilized also. This I will do.”
    “The President has the powers, under the Constitution and un-
der Congressional acts, to take measures necessary to avert a disas-
ter which would interfere with the winning of the war.”

    122  12 Stat. 326 (1861).
    123  J. RANDALL, CONSTITUTIONAL PROBLEMS UNDER LINCOLN 118–139 (rev. ed. 1951).
     124 E.g., Attorney General Biddle’s justification of seizure of a plant during World

War II: “As Chief Executive and as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy, the
President possesses an aggregate of powers that are derived from the Constitution
and from various statutes enacted by the Congress for the purpose of carrying on
the war. . . . In time of war when the existence of the nation is at stake, this aggre-
gate of powers includes authority to take reasonable steps to prevent nation-wide
labor disturbances that threaten to interfere seriously with the conduct of the war.
The fact that the initial impact of these disturbances is on the production or distri-
bution of essential civilian goods is not a reason for denying the Chief Executive
and the Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy the power to take steps to pro-
tect the nation’s war effort.” 40 Ops. Atty. Gen. 312, 319–320 (1944). Prior to the
actual beginning of hostilities, Attorney General Jackson asserted the same justifi-
cation upon seizure of an aviation plant. E. CORWIN, TOTAL WAR AND THE CONSTITUTION
47–48 (1946).
     125 56 Stat. 23 (1942).
