    “I have given the most thoughtful consideration to meeting this
issue without further reference to the Congress. I have deter-
mined, however, on this vital matter to consult with the Con-
gress. . . .”
    “The American people can be sure that I will use my powers
with a full sense of my responsibility to the Constitution and to my
country. The American people can also be sure that I shall not hesi-
tate to use every power vested in me to accomplish the defeat of
our enemies in any part of the world where our own safety de-
mands such defeat.”
    “When the war is won, the powers under which I act automati-
cally revert to the people—to whom they belong.” 126
    Presidential War Agencies.—While congressional compliance
with the President’s demand rendered unnecessary an effort on his
part to amend the Price Control Act, there were other matters as
to which he repeatedly took action within the normal field of con-
gressional powers, not only during the war, but in some instances
prior to it. Thus, in exercising both the powers which he claimed
as Commander-in-Chief and those which Congress conferred upon
him to meet the emergency, Mr. Roosevelt employed new emer-
gency agencies, created by himself and responsible directly to him,
rather than the established departments or existing independent regu-
latory agencies.127
    Constitutional Status of Presidential Agencies.—The ques-
tion of the legal status of the presidential agencies was dealt with
judicially but once. This was in the decision of the United States
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia in Employers Group
v. National War Labor Board,128 which was a suit to annul and en-
join a “directive order” of the War Labor Board. The Court refused
the injunction on the ground that the time when the directive was
issued any action of the Board was “informatory,” “at most advi-
sory.” In support of this view the Court quoted approvingly a state-
ment by the chairman of the Board itself: “These orders are in re-
ality mere declarations of the equities of each industrial dispute,
as determined by a tripartite body in which industry, labor, and the
public share equal responsibility; and the appeal of the Board is to
the moral obligation of employers and workers to abide by the
    126 88 CONG. REC. 7044 (1942). Congress promptly complied, 56 Stat. 765 (1942),

so that the President was not required to act on his own. But see E. Corwin, supra,
65–66.
    127 For a listing of the agencies and an account of their creation to the close of

1942, see Vanderbilt, War Powers and Their Administration, in 1942 ANNUAL SURVEY
OF AMERICAN LAW 106 (New York Univ.).
    128 143 F.2d 145 (D.C. Cir. 1944).
