                           COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF

Development of the Concept
    Surprisingly little discussion of the Commander-in-Chief Clause
is found in the Convention or in the ratifying debates. From the
evidence available, it appears that the Framers vested the duty in
the President because experience in the Continental Congress had
disclosed the inexpediency of vesting command in a group and be-
cause the lesson of English history was that danger lurked in vest-
ing command in a person separate from the responsible political lead-
ers.111 But the principal concern here is the nature of the power
granted by the clause.
    The Limited View.—The purely military aspects of the
Commander-in-Chiefship were those that were originally stressed.
Hamilton said the office “would amount to nothing more than the
supreme command and direction of the Military and naval forces,
as first general and admiral of the confederacy.” 112 Story wrote in
his Commentaries: “The propriety of admitting the president to be
commander in chief, so far as to give orders, and have a general
superintendency, was admitted. But it was urged, that it would be
dangerous to let him command in person, without any restraint, as
he might make a bad use of it. The consent of both houses of Con-
gress ought, therefore, to be required, before he should take the ac-
tual command. The answer then given was, that though the presi-
dent might, there was no necessity that he should, take the command
in person; and there was no probability that he would do so, except
in extraordinary emergencies, and when he was possessed of supe-
rior military talents.” 113 In 1850, Chief Justice Taney, for the Court,
wrote: “His duty and his power are purely military. As commander-
in-chief, he is authorized to direct the movements of the naval and
military forces placed by law at his command, and to employ them
in the manner he may deem most effectual to harass and conquer
and subdue the enemy. He may invade the hostile country, and sub-
     111 May, The President Shall Be Commander in Chief, in THE ULTIMATE DECISION:

THE PRESIDENT AS COMMANDER IN CHIEF (E. May ed., 1960), 1. In the Virginia ratifying
convention, Madison, replying to Patrick Henry’s objection that danger lurked in giv-
ing the President control of the military, said: “Would the honorable member say
that the sword ought to be put in the hands of the representatives of the people, or
in other hands independent of the government altogether?” 3 J. ELLIOT, THE DEBATES
IN THE SEVERAL STATE CONVENTIONS ON THE ADOPTION OF THE FEDERAL CONSTITUTION 393 (1836).
In the North Carolina convention, Iredell said: “From the nature of the thing, the
command of armies ought to be delegated to one person only. The secrecy, dispatch,
and decision, which are necessary in military operations can only be expected from
one person.” 4 id. at 107.
     112 THE FEDERALIST, No. 69 (J. Cooke ed. 1961), 465.
     113 3 J. STORY, COMMENTARIES ON THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 1486 (1833).
