they confront him. Defying neat summarization, the considerations
nevertheless merit at least an historical survey and an attempted
categorization of the arguments.
     The Historic Use of Force Abroad.—In 1912, the Depart-
ment of State published a memorandum prepared by its Solicitor
which set out to justify the Right to Protect Citizens in Foreign Coun-
tries by Landing Forces.164 In addition to the justification, the memo-
randum summarized 47 instances in which force had been used, in
most of them without any congressional authorization. Twice re-
vised and reissued, the memorandum was joined by a 1928 indepen-
dent study and a 1945 work by a former government official in sup-
porting conclusions that drifted away from the original justification
of the use of United States forces abroad to the use of such forces
at the discretion of the President and free from control by Con-
gress.165
    New lists and revised arguments were published to support the
actions of President Truman in sending troops to Korea and of Presi-
dents Kennedy and Johnson in sending troops first to Vietnam and
then to Indochina generally, 166 and new lists have been pro-

     164 J. Clark, Memorandum by the Solicitor for the Department of State, in RIGHT

TO PROTECT CITIZENS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES BY LANDING FORCES (1912).
     165 Id. (Washington: 1929; 1934); M. OFFUTT, THE PROTECTION OF CITIZENS ABROAD BY

THE ARMED FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES (1928); J. ROGERS, WORLD POLICING AND THE CON-
STITUTION (1945). The burden of the last cited volume was to establish that the Presi-
dent was empowered to participate in United Nations peacekeeping actions without
having to seek congressional authorization on each occasion; it may be said to be
one of the earliest, if not the earliest, propoundings of the doctrine of inherent presi-
dential powers to use troops abroad outside the narrow compass traditionally ac-
corded those powers.
     166 E.g., H. REP. NO. 127, 82d Congress, 1st Sess. (1951), 55–62; Corwin, Who

Has the Power to Make War? NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE (July 31, 1949), 11; Authority
of the President to Repel the Attack in Korea, 23 DEPT. STATE BULL. 173 (1950); Depart-
ment of State, Historical Studies Division, Armed Actions Taken by the United States
Without a Declaration of War, 1789–1967 (Res. Proj. No. 806A (Washington: 1967)).
That the compilation of such lists was more than a defense against public criticism
can be gleaned from a revealing discussion in Secretary of State Acheson’s memoirs
detailing why the President did not seek congressional sanction for sending troops
to Korea. “There has never, I believe, been any serious doubt—in the sense of non-
politically inspired doubt—of the President’s constitutional authority to do what he
did. The basis for this conclusion in legal theory and historical precedent was fully
set out in the State Department’s memorandum of July 3, 1950, extensively pub-
lished. But the wisdom of the decision not to ask for congressional approval has
been doubted. . . .”
     After discussing several reasons establishing the wisdom of the decision, the Sec-
retary continued: “The President agreed, moved also, I think, by another passion-
ately held conviction. His great office was to him a sacred and temporary trust, which
he was determined to pass on unimpaired by the slightest loss of power or prestige.
This attitude would incline him strongly against any attempt to divert criticism from
himself by action that might establish a precedent in derogation of presidential power
