at his discretion.169 Thus, Secretary of State Acheson told Con-
gress: “Not only has the President the authority to use the armed
forces in carrying out the broad foreign policy of the United States
implementing treaties, but it is equally clear that this authority may
not be interfered with by the Congress in the exercise of powers
which it has under the Constitution.” 170
     The Theory of Presidential Power.—The fullest expression
of the presidential power proponents has been in defense of the course
followed in Indochina. Thus, the Legal Adviser of the State Depart-
ment, in a widely circulated document, contended: “Under the Con-
stitution, the President, in addition to being Chief Executive, is Com-
mander in Chief of the Army and Navy. He holds the prime
responsibility for the conduct of United States foreign relations. These
duties carry very broad powers, including the power to deploy Ameri-
can forces abroad and commit them to military operations when the
President deems such action necessary to maintain the security and
defense of the United States. . . .”
    “In 1787 the world was a far larger place, and the framers prob-
ably had in mind attacks upon the United States. In the 20th cen-
tury, the world has grown much smaller. An attack on a country
far from our shores can impinge directly on the nation’s security.
In the SEATO treaty, for example, it is formally declared that an
armed attack against Viet Nam would endanger the peace and se-
curity of the United States.”
     “Under our Constitution it is the President who must decide when
an armed attack has occurred. He has also the constitutional respon-
sibility for determining what measures of defense are required when
the peace and safety of the United States are endangered. If he con-
siders that deployment of U.S. forces to South Viet Nam is re-
quired, and that military measures against the source of Commu-


     169 For some popular defenses of presidential power during the “Great Debate,”

see Corwin, Who Has the Power to Make War? NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE (July 31,
1949), 11; Commager, Presidential Power: The Issue Analyzed, NEW YORK TIMES MAGA-
ZINE (January 14, 1951), 11. Cf. Douglas, The Constitutional and Legal Basis for the
President’s Action in Using Armed Forces to Repel the Invasion of South Korea, 96
CONG. REC. 9647 (1950). President Truman and Secretary Acheson utilized the argu-
ment from the U.N. Charter in defending the United States actions in Korea, and
the Charter defense has been made much of since. See, e.g., Stromseth, Rethinking
War Powers: Congress, the President, and the United Nations, 81 GEO. L. J. 597 (1993).
     170 Assignment of Ground Forces of the United States to Duty in the European

Area: Hearings Before the Senate Foreign Relations and Armed Services Commit-
tees, 82d Congress, 1st Sess. (1951), 92.
