the International Emergency Economic Powers Act,159 which did not
alter most of the range of powers delegated to the President but
which did change the scope of the power delegated to declare na-
tional emergencies.160 Congress also passed the National Emergen-
cies Act, prescribing procedures for the declaration of national emer-
gencies, for their termination, and for presidential reporting to
Congress in connection with national emergencies. To end the prac-
tice of declaring national emergencies for an indefinite duration, Con-
gress provided that any emergency not otherwise terminated would
expire one year after its declaration unless the President published
in the Federal Register and transmitted to Congress a notice that
the emergency would continue in effect.161

The Cold War and After: Presidential Power To Use Troops
   Overseas Without Congressional Authorization
     Reaction after World War II did not persist, but soon ran its
course, and the necessities, real and perceived, of the United States’
role as world power and chief guarantor of the peace operated to
expand the powers of the President and to diminish congressional
powers in the foreign relations arena. President Truman did not seek
congressional authorization before sending troops to Korea, and sub-
sequent Presidents similarly acted on their own in putting troops
into many foreign countries, including the Dominican Republic, Leba-
non, Grenada, Panama, and the Persian Gulf, and most notably In-
dochina.162 Eventually, public opposition precipitated another con-
stitutional debate whether the President had the authority to commit
troops to foreign combat without the approval of Congress, a de-
bate that went on inconclusively between Congress and Execu-
tive 163 and one which the courts were content generally to consign
to the exclusive consideration of those two bodies. The substance of
the debate concerns many facets of the President’s powers and re-
sponsibilities, including his obligations to protect the lives and prop-
erty of United States citizens abroad, to execute the treaty obliga-
tions of the Nation, to further the national security interests of the
Nation, and to deal with aggression and threats of aggression as
    159  91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. §§ 1701–1706.
    160  Congress authorized the declaration of a national emergency based only on
“any unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in whole or substantial
part outside the United States, to the national security, foreign policy, or the economy
of the United States . . . .” 50 U.S.C. § 1701.
     161 Pub. L. 94–412, 90 Stat. 1255 (1976).
     162 See the discussion in NATIONAL COMMITMENTS RESOLUTION, REPORT OF THE SENATE

COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS, S. REP. NO. 91–129, 91st Congress, 1st sess. (1969);
U.S. Commitments to Foreign Powers: Hearings Before the Senate Committee on For-
eign Relations, 90th Congress, 1st sess. (1967) at 16–19 (Professor Bartlett).
     163 See discussion under Article I, § 8, cls. 11–14.
