overthrown, to preserve the safety of the army and society; and as
no power is left but the military, it is allowed to govern by martial
rule until the laws can have their free course. As necessity creates
the rule, so it limits its duration; for, if this government is contin-
ued after the courts are reinstated, it is a gross usurpation of power.
Martial rule can never exist where the courts are open, and in proper
and unobstructed exercise of their jurisdiction. It is also confined
to the locality of actual war.” 208 Four Justices, speaking by Chief
Justice Chase, while holding Milligan’s trial to have been void be-
cause it violated the Act of March 3, 1863, governing the custody
and trial of persons who had been deprived of the habeas corpus
privilege, declared their belief that Congress could have authorized
Milligan’s trial. The Chief Justice wrote: “Congress has the power
not only to raise and support and govern armies but to declare war.
It has, therefore, the power to provide by law for carrying on war.
This power necessarily extends to all legislation essential to the pros-
ecution of war with vigor and success, except such as interferes with
the command of the forces and the conduct of campaigns. That power
and duty belong to the President as commander-in-chief. Both these
powers are derived from the Constitution, but neither is defined by
that instrument. Their extent must be determined by their nature,
and by the principles of our institutions. . . .”
    “We by no means assert that Congress can establish and apply
the laws of war where no war has been declared or exists.”
    “Where peace exists the laws of peace must prevail. What we
do maintain is, that when the nation is involved in war, and some
portions of the country are invaded, and all are exposed to inva-
sion, it is within the power of Congress to determine in what states
or districts such great and imminent public danger exists as justi-
fies the authorization of military tribunals for the trial of crimes
and offences against the discipline or security of the army or against
the public safety.” 209 In short, only Congress can authorize the sub-
stitution of military tribunals for civil tribunals for the trial of of-
fenses; and Congress can do so only in wartime.
    Early in the 20th century, however, the Court appeared to re-
treat from its stand in Milligan insofar as it held in Moyer v.
Peabody 210 that “the Governor’s declaration that a state of insurrec-
tion existed is conclusive of that fact. . . . [T]he plaintiff ’s position
    208  71 U.S. at 127.
    209  71 U.S. at 139–40. In Ex parte Vallandigham, 68 U.S. (1 Wall.) 243 (1864),
the Court had held, while war was still flagrant, that it had no power to review by
certiorari the proceedings of a military commission ordered by a general officer of
the Army, commanding a military department.
     210 212 U.S. 78 (1909).
