By section 5 of the Organic Act, “the Constitution . . . shall have
the same force and effect within the said Territory as elsewhere in
the United States.” In a brace of cases which reached it in Febru-
ary 1945, but which it contrived to postpone deciding till February
1946,215 the Court, speaking by Justice Black, held that the term
“martial law” as employed in the Organic Act, “while intended to
authorize the military to act vigorously for the maintenance of an
orderly civil government and for the defense of the Islands against
actual or threatened rebellion or invasion, was not intended to au-
thorize the supplanting of courts by military tribunals.” 216
    The Court relied on the majority opinion in Ex parte Milligan.
Chief Justice Stone concurred in the result. “I assume also,” he said,
“that there could be circumstances in which the public safety re-
quires, and the Constitution permits, substitution of trials by mili-
tary tribunals for trials in the civil courts,” 217 but added that the
military authorities themselves had failed to show justifying facts
in this instance. Justice Burton, speaking for himself and Justice
Frankfurter, dissented. He stressed the importance of Hawaii as a
military outpost and its constant exposure to the danger of fresh
invasion. He warned that “courts must guard themselves with spe-
cial care against judging past military action too closely by the in-
applicable standards of judicial, or even military, hindsight.” 218
    Articles of War: The Nazi Saboteurs.—In 1942 eight youths,
seven Germans and one an American, all of whom had received train-
ing in sabotage in Berlin, were brought to this country aboard two
German submarines and put ashore, one group on the Florida coast,
the other on Long Island, with the idea that they would proceed
forthwith to practice their art on American factories, military equip-
ment, and installations. Making their way inland, the saboteurs were
soon picked up by the FBI, some in New York, others in Chicago,
and turned over to the Provost Marshal of the District of Colum-
bia. On July 2, the President appointed a military commission to
try them for violation of the laws of war, to wit: for not wearing
fixed emblems to indicate their combatant status. In the midst of
the trial, the accused petitioned the Supreme Court and the United
States District Court for the District of Columbia for leave to bring
habeas corpus proceedings. Their argument embraced the conten-
tions: (1) that the offense charged against them was not known to
the laws of the United States; (2) that it was not one arising in the

   215 Duncan v. Kahanamoku, 327 U.S. 304 (1946).
   216 327 U.S. at 324.
   217 327 U.S. at 336.
   218 327 U.S. at 343.
