land and naval forces; and (3) that the tribunal trying them had
not been constituted in accordance with the requirements of the Ar-
ticles of War.
    The first argument the Court met as follows: The act of Con-
gress in providing for the trial before military tribunals of offenses
against the law of war is sufficiently definite, although Congress
has not undertaken to codify or mark the precise boundaries of the
law of war, or to enumerate or define by statute all the acts which
that law condemns. “. . . [T]hose who during time of war pass sur-
reptitiously from enemy territory into . . . [that of the United States],
discarding their uniforms upon entry, for the commission of hostile
acts involving destruction of life or property, have the status of un-
lawful combatants punishable as such by military commission.” 219
The second argument it disposed of by showing that petitioners’ case
was of a kind that was never deemed to be within the terms of the
Fifth and Sixth Amendments, citing in confirmation of this position
the trial of Major Andre.220 The third contention the Court over-
ruled by declining to draw the line between the powers of Congress
and the President in the premises,221 thereby, in effect, attributing
to the President the right to amend the Articles of War in a case of
the kind before the Court ad libitum.
     The decision might well have rested on the ground that the Con-
stitution is without restrictive force in wartime in a situation of this
sort. The saboteurs were invaders; their penetration of the bound-
ary of the country, projected from units of a hostile fleet, was essen-
tially a military operation, their capture was a continuation of that
operation. Punishment of the saboteurs was therefore within the
President’s purely martial powers as Commander in Chief. More-
over, seven of the petitioners were enemy aliens, and so, strictly
speaking, without constitutional status. Even had they been civil-
ians properly domiciled in the United States at the outbreak of the
war, they would have been subject under the statutes to restraint
and other disciplinary action by the President without appeals to
the courts. In any event, the Court rejected the jurisdictional chal-
lenge by one of the saboteurs on the basis of his claim to U.S. citi-
zenship, finding U.S. citizenship wholly irrelevant to the determina-
tion of whether a wartime captive is an “enemy belligerent” within
the meaning of the law of war.222

    219 Ex parte Quirin, 317 U.S. 1, 29–30, 35 (1942).
    220 317 U.S. at 41–42.
    221 317 U.S. at 28–29.
    222 Ex parte Quirin, 317 U.S. 1, 37–38 (1942) (“Citizens who associate them-

selves with the military arm of the enemy government, and with its aid, guidance
and direction enter this country bent on hostile acts, are enemy belligerents within
