basis was statutory or constitutional.234 This amendment was chal-
lenged in Boumediene v. Bush,235 as a violation of the Suspension
Clause.236 Although the historical record did not contain significant
common-law applications of the writ to foreign nationals who were
apprehended and detained overseas, the Court did not find this con-
clusive in evaluating whether habeas applied in this case.237 Em-
phasizing a “functional” approach to the issue,238 the Court consid-
ered (1) the citizenship and status of the detainee and the adequacy
of the process through which the status determination was made;
(2) the nature of the sites where apprehension and detention took
place; and (3) any practical obstacles inherent in resolving the pris-
oner’s entitlement to the writ. As in Rasul, the Court distinguished
previous case law, noting that the instant detainees disputed their
enemy status, that their ability to dispute their status had been
limited, that they were held in a location (Guantanamo Bay, Cuba)
under the de facto jurisdiction of the United States, and that com-
plying with the demands of habeas petitions would not interfere with
the government’s military mission. Thus, the Court concluded that
the Suspension Clause was in full effect regarding these detainees.
    Martial Law and Domestic Disorder.—President Washing-
ton himself took command of state militia called into federal ser-
vice to quell the Whiskey Rebellion, but there were not too many
occasions subsequently in which federal troops or state militia called




     234 Detainee Treatment Act of 2005, Pub. L. 109–148, § 1005(e)(1) (providing that

“no court . . . shall have jurisdiction to hear or consider . . . an application for a
writ of habeas corpus filed by . . . an alien detained . . . at Guantanamo Bay”). Af-
ter the Court decided, in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, 548 U.S. 557 (2006), that this lan-
guage of the Detainee Treatment Act did not apply to detainees whose cases were
pending at the time of enactment, the language was amended by the Military Com-
missions Act of 2006, Pub. L. 109–366, to also apply to pending cases where a de-
tainee had been determined to be an enemy combatant.
     235 553 U.S. 723 (2008).
     236 U.S. Const. Art. I, § 9, cl. 2 provides: “The Privilege of the Writ of Habeas

Corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the
public Safety may require it.” In Boumediene, the government argued only that the
Suspension Clause did not apply to the detainees; it did not argue that Congress
had acted to suspend habeas.
     237 “[G]iven the unique status of Guantanamo Bay and the particular dangers

of terrorism in the modern age, the common-law courts simply may not have con-
fronted cases with close parallels to this one. We decline, therefore, to infer too much,
one way or the other, from the lack of historical evidence on this point.” 553 U.S. at
752.
     238 553 U.S. at 764. “[Q]uestions of extraterritoriality turn on objective factors

and practical concerns, not formalism.” Id.
