consent of the Senate another person in his place.200 The Presi-
dent’s power of dismissal in time of war Congress has never at-
tempted to limit.
     The Commander-in-Chief a Civilian Officer.—Is the
Commander-in-Chiefship a military or a civilian office in the con-
templation of the Constitution? Unquestionably the latter. An opin-
ion by a New York surrogate deals adequately, though not authori-
tatively, with the subject: “The President receives his compensation
for his services, rendered as Chief Executive of the Nation, not for
the individual parts of his duties. No part of his compensation is
paid from sums appropriated for the military or naval forces; and
it is equally clear under the Constitution that the President’s du-
ties as Commander in Chief represent only a part of duties ex offi-
cio as Chief Executive [Article II, sections 2 and 3 of the Constitu-
tion] and that the latter’s office is a civil office. [Article II, section 1
of the Constitution . . . .] The President does not enlist in, and he
is not inducted or drafted into, the armed forces. Nor, is he subject
to court-martial or other military discipline. On the contrary, Ar-
ticle II, section 4 of the Constitution provides that ‘The President,
[Vice President] and All Civil Officers of the United States shall be
removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of Trea-
son, Bribery or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.’ . . . The last
two War Presidents, President Wilson and President Roosevelt, both
clearly recognized the civilian nature of the President’s position as
Commander in Chief. President Roosevelt, in his Navy Day Cam-
paign speech at Shibe Park, Philadelphia, on October 27, 1944, pro-
nounced this principle as follows:–‘It was due to no accident and no
oversight that the framers of our Constitution put the command of
our armed forces under civilian authority. It is the duty of the Com-
mander in Chief to appoint the Secretaries of War and Navy and
the Chiefs of Staff.’ It is also to be noted that the Secretary of War,
who is the regularly constituted organ of the President for the ad-
ministration of the military establishment of the Nation, has been
held by the Supreme Court of the United States to be merely a ci-
vilian officer, not in military service. (United States v. Burns, 79 U.S.
(12 Wall.) 246 (1871)). On the general principle of civilian su-
premacy over the military, by virtue of the Constitution, it has re-



    200 Mullan v. United States, 140 U.S. 240 (1891); Wallace v. United States, 257

U.S. 541 (1922).
