                     EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT


                                 ARTICLE II

    SECTION 1. Clause 1. The executive Power shall be vested in
a President of the United States of America. He shall hold his
Office during the Term of four Years and, together with the Vice
President, chosen for the same Term, be elected, as follows:
              NATURE AND SCOPE OF PRESIDENTIAL POWER

       Creation of the Presidency
            Of all the issues confronting the members of the Philadelphia
       Convention, the nature of the presidency ranks among the most im-
       portant and the resolution of the question one of the most signifi-
       cant steps taken.1 The immediate source of Article II was the New
       York constitution, in which the governor was elected by the people
       and was thus independent of the legislature, his term was three
       years and he was indefinitely re-eligible, his decisions except with
       regard to appointments and vetoes were unencumbered with a coun-
       cil, he was in charge of the militia, he possessed the pardoning power,
       and he was charged to take care that the laws were faithfully ex-
       ecuted.2 But, from when the Convention assembled and almost to
       its closing days, there was no assurance that the executive depart-
       ment would not be headed by plural administrators, would not be
       unalterably tied to the legislature, and would not be devoid of many
       of the powers normally associated with an executive.
            Debate in the Convention proceeded against a background of
       many things, but most certainly uppermost in the delegates’ minds
       was the experience of the states and of the national government
       under the Articles of Confederation. Reacting to the exercise of pow-
       ers by the royal governors, the framers of the state constitutions
       had generally created weak executives and strong legislatures, though
           1 The background and the action of the Convention is comprehensively exam-

       ined in C. THACH, THE CREATION OF THE PRESIDENCY 1775–1789 (1923). A review of the
       Constitution’s provisions being put into operation is J. HART, THE AMERICAN PRESI-
       DENCY IN ACTION 1789 (1948).
           2 Hamilton observed the similarities and differences between the President and

       the New York Governor in THE FEDERALIST, No. 69 (J. Cooke ed. 1961), 462–470. On
       the text, see New York Constitution of 1777, Articles XVII–XIX, in 5 F. Thorpe, The
       Federal and State Constitutions, H. DOC. NO. 357, 59th Congress, 2d sess. (1909),
       2632–2633.
