Justice asked, “we could conjure up in our minds a President will-
ing to paralyze courts by pardoning all criminal contempts, why not
a President ordering a general jail delivery?” Although, he added,
“[t]he power of a court to protect itself and its usefulness by punish-
ing contemnors is of course necessary,” in light of the fact that a
court exercises this power “without the restraining influence of a
jury and without many of the guaranties [sic] which the bill of rights
offers[,] . . . [m]ay it not be fairly said that in order to avoid pos-
sible mistake, undue prejudice or needless severity, the chance of
pardon should exist at least as much in favor of a person convicted
by a judge without a jury as in favor of one convicted in a jury
trial?” 265
    Effects of a Pardon: Ex parte Garland.—The leading case
on this subject is Ex parte Garland,266 which was decided shortly
after the Civil War. By an act passed in 1865, Congress had pre-
scribed that, before any person should be permitted to practice in a
federal court, he must take oath asserting that he had “never vol-
untarily borne arms against the United States,” had never given
aid or encouragement “to persons engaged in armed hostilities” against
the United States, and so forth.267 Garland, who had “taken part
in the Rebellion against the United States, by being in the Con-
gress of the so-called Confederate States,” and so was unable to take
the oath, had, however, received from President Johnson “a full par-
don ‘for all offences by him committed, arising from participation,
direct or implied, in the Rebellion,’ ” 268 The question before the Court
was whether, armed with this pardon, Garland was entitled to prac-
tice in the federal courts despite the act of Congress just men-
tioned. Justice Field wrote for a divided Court: “[T]he inquiry arises
as to the effect and operation of a pardon, and on this point all the
authorities concur. A pardon reaches both the punishment pre-
scribed for the offence and the guilt of the offender; and when the
pardon is full, it releases the punishment and blots out of exis-
tence the guilt, so that in the eye of the law the offender is as inno-
cent as if he had never committed the offence. If granted before con-
viction, it prevents any of the penalties and disabilities consequent
upon conviction from attaching; if granted after conviction, it re-
moves the penalties and disabilities, and restores him to all his civil
rights; it makes him, as it were, a new man, and gives him a new
credit and capacity.” 269

   265 267 U.S. at 121, 122.
   266 71 U.S. (4 Wall.) 333 (1867).
   267 71 U.S. (4 Wall.) at 334–35.
   268 71 U.S. (4 Wall.) at 336, 375.
   269 71 U.S. at 380–81.
