    The President cannot pardon by anticipation, or he would be
invested with the power to dispense with the laws, King James II’s
claim to which was the principal cause of his forced abdication.262
    Offenses Against the United States: Contempt of Court.—
The President may pardon criminal but not civil contempts of court.
The Court “point[ed] out that it is not the fact of punishment but
rather its character and purpose that makes the difference be-
tween the two kinds of contempts. For civil contempts, the punish-
ment is remedial and for the benefit of the complainant, and a par-
don cannot stop it. For criminal contempts the sentence is punitive
in the public interest to vindicate the authority of the court and to
deter other like derelictions.” 263 In upholding the President’s power
to pardon criminal contempt, Chief Justice Taft, speaking for the
Court, resorted once more to English conceptions as being authori-
tative in construing this clause of the Constitution. He wrote: “The
King of England before our Revolution, in the exercise of his pre-
rogative, had always exercised the power to pardon contempts of
court, just as he did ordinary crimes and misdemeanors and as he
has done to the present day. In the mind of a common law lawyer
of the eighteenth century the word pardon included within its scope
the ending by the King’s grace of the punishment of such derelic-
tions, whether it was imposed by the court without a jury or upon
indictment, for both forms of trial for contempts were had. [Citing
cases.] These cases also show that, long before our Constitution, a
distinction had been recognized at common law between the effect
of the King’s pardon to wipe out the effect of a sentence for con-
tempt in so far as it had been imposed to punish the contemnor for
violating the dignity of the court and the King, in the public inter-
est, and its inefficacy to halt or interfere with the remedial part of
the court’s order necessary to secure the rights of the injured suitor.
Blackstone IV, 285, 397, 398; Hawkins Pleas of the Crown, 6th Ed.
(1787), Vol. 2, 553. The same distinction, nowadays referred to as
the difference between civil and criminal contempts, is still main-
tained in English law.” 264 Nor was any new or special danger to be
apprehended from this view of the pardoning power. “If,” the Chief
     262 F. MAITLAND, CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY OF ENGLAND 302–306 (W.S. Hein 2006) (1908);

1 Ops. Atty. Gen. 342 (1820). That is, the pardon may not be in anticipation of the
commission of the offense. “A pardon may be exercised at any time after its commis-
sion, either before legal proceedings are taken, or during their pendency, or after
conviction and judgment.” Ex parte Garland, 71 U.S. (4 Wall.) 333, 380 (1867), as
indeed President Ford’s pardon of former President Nixon preceded institution of
any action. On the Nixon pardon controversy, see Pardon of Richard M. Nixon and
Related Matters: Hearings Before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Criminal Jus-
tice, 93d Congress, 2d Sess. (1974).
     263 Ex parte Grossman, 267 U.S. 87, 113 (1925).
     264 267 U.S. at 110–11.
