not in all instances. The Articles of Confederation vested all pow-
ers in a unicameral congress. Experience had demonstrated that harm
was to be feared as much from an unfettered legislature as from
an uncurbed executive and that many advantages of a reasonably
strong executive could not be conferred on the legislative body.3
    Nevertheless, the Virginia Plan, which formed the basis of dis-
cussion, offered in somewhat vague language a weak executive. Se-
lection was to be by the legislature, and that body was to deter-
mine the major part of executive competency. The executive’s salary
was, however, to be fixed and not subject to change by the legisla-
tive branch during the term of the executive, and he was ineligible
for re-election so that he need not defer overly to the legislature. A
council of revision was provided, of which the executive was a part,
with power to negative national and state legislation. The execu-
tive power was said to be the power to “execute the national laws”
and to “enjoy the Executive rights vested in Congress by the Con-
federation.” The Plan did not provide for a single or plural execu-
tive, leaving that issue open.4
    When the executive portion of the Plan was taken up on June
1, James Wilson immediately moved that the executive should con-
sist of a single person.5 In the course of his remarks, Wilson dem-
onstrated his belief in a strong executive, advocating election by the
people, which would free the executive of dependence on the na-
tional legislature and on the states, proposing indefinite re-
eligibility, and preferring an absolute negative though in concur-
rence with a council of revision.6 The vote on Wilson’s motion was
put over until the questions of method of selection, term, mode of
removal, and powers to be conferred had been considered; subse-
quently, the motion carried,7 and the possibility of the development
of a strong President was made real.
    Only slightly less important was the decision finally arrived at
not to provide for an executive council, which would participate not
only in the executive’s exercise of the veto power but also in the
exercise of all his executive duties, notably appointments and treaty
making. Despite strong support for such a council, the Convention

    3 C. THACH, THE CREATION OF THE PRESIDENCY 1775–1789 chs. 1–3 (1923).
    4 The plans offered and the debate is reviewed in C. THACH, THE CREATION OF THE
PRESIDENCY 1775–1789 ch. 4 (1923). The text of the Virginia Plan may be found in 1
M. FARRAND, THE RECORDS OF THE FEDERAL CONVENTION OF 1787 21 (rev. ed. 1937).
    5 Id. at 65.
    6 Id. at 65, 66, 68, 69, 70, 71, 73.
    7 Id. at 93.
