       sumed to have been rightfully done and justly suffered, and no sat-
       isfaction for it can be required. Neither does the pardon affect any
       rights which have vested in others directly by the execution of the
       judgment for the offence, or which have been acquired by others
       whilst that judgment was in force. If, for example, by the judgment
       a sale of the offender’s property has been had, the purchaser will
       hold the property notwithstanding the subsequent pardon. And if
       the proceeds of the sale have been paid to a party to whom the law
       has assigned them, they cannot be subsequently reached and recov-
       ered by the offender. The rights of the parties have become vested,
       and are as complete as if they were acquired in any other legal way.
       So, also, if the proceeds have been paid into the treasury, the right
       to them has so far become vested in the United States that they
       can only be secured to the former owner of the property through
       an act of Congress. Moneys once in the treasury can only be with-
       drawn by an appropriation by law.” 274
       Congress and Amnesty
            Congress cannot limit the effects of a presidential amnesty. Thus
       the act of July 12, 1870, making proof of loyalty necessary to re-
       cover property abandoned and sold by the government during the
       Civil War, notwithstanding any executive proclamation, pardon, am-
       nesty, or other act of condonation or oblivion, was pronounced void.
       Chief Justice Chase wrote for the majority: “[T]he legislature can-
       not change the effect of such a pardon any more than the executive
       can change a law. Yet this is attempted by the provision under con-
       sideration. The Court is required to receive special pardons as evi-
       dence of guilt and to treat them as null and void. It is required to
       disregard pardons granted by proclamation on condition, though the
       condition has been fulfilled, and to deny them their legal effect. This
       certainly impairs the executive authority and directs the Court to
       be instrumental to that end.” 275 On the other hand, Congress it-
       self, under the Necessary and Proper Clause, may enact amnesty
       laws remitting penalties incurred under the national statutes.276
    Clause 2. He shall have Power, by and with the Advice and
Consent of the Senate, to make Treaties, provided two thirds of
the Senators present concur; and he shall nominate, and by and
with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint Am-
bassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, Judges of the su-
          274 Knote v. United States, 95 U.S. 149, 153–54 (1877).
          275 United States v. Klein, 80 U.S. (13 Wall.) 128, 143, 148 (1872).
          276 The Laura, 114 U.S. 411 (1885).
