    Justice Miller, speaking for the minority, protested that the act
of Congress involved was not penal in character, but merely laid
down an appropriate test of fitness to practice law. “The man who,
by counterfeiting, by theft, by murder, or by treason, is rendered
unfit to exercise the functions of an attorney or counselor-at-law,
may be saved by the executive pardon from the penitentiary or the
gallows, but he is not thereby restored to the qualifications which
are essential to admission to the bar.” 270 Justice Field’s language
must today be regarded as too sweeping in light of the 1914 deci-
sion in Carlesi v. New York.271 Carlesi had been convicted several
years before of committing a federal offense. In the instant case, he
was being tried for a subsequent offense committed in New York.
He was convicted as a second offender, although the President had
pardoned him for the earlier federal offense. In other words, the
fact of prior conviction by a federal court was considered in deter-
mining the punishment for a subsequent state offense. This convic-
tion and sentence were upheld by the Supreme Court. Although this
case involved offenses against different sovereignties, the Court de-
clared in dictum that its decision “must not be understood as in
the slightest degree intimating that a pardon would operate to limit
the power of the United States in punishing crimes against its au-
thority to provide for taking into consideration past offenses com-
mitted by the accused as a circumstance of aggravation even al-
though for such past offenses there had been a pardon granted.” 272
     Limits to the Efficacy of a Pardon.—But Justice Field’s lati-
tudinarian view of the effect of a pardon undoubtedly still applies
ordinarily where the pardon is issued before conviction. He is also
correct in saying that a full pardon restores a convict to his “civil
rights,” and this is so even though simple completion of the con-
vict’s sentence would not have had that effect. One such right is
the right to testify in court, and in Boyd v. United States, the Court
held that “[t]he disability to testify being a consequence, according
to the principles of the common law, of the judgment of conviction,
the pardon obliterated that effect.” 273 But a pardon “does not make
amends for the past. It affords no relief for what has been suffered
by the offender in his person by imprisonment, forced labor, or oth-
erwise; it does not give compensation for what has been done or
suffered, nor does it impose upon the government any obligation to
give it. The offence being established by judicial proceedings, that
which has been done or suffered while they were in force is pre-

   270 71 U.S. at 397.
   271 233 U.S. 51 (1914).
   272 233 U.S. at 59.
   273 142 U.S. 450, 453–54 (1892).
