terpreting treaties, however, have “no binding force except between
the parties and in respect of that particular case.” 291 ICJ decisions
“are therefore entitled only to the ‘respectful consideration’ due an
interpretation of an international agreement by an international
court.” 292
    Even when an ICJ decision has binding force as between the
governments of two nations, it is not necessarily enforceable by the
individuals affected. If, for example, the ICJ finds that the United
States violated a particular defendant’s rights under international
law, and such a decision “constitutes an international law obliga-
tion on the part of the United States,” it does not necessarily “con-
stitute binding federal law enforceable in United States courts. . . .
[W]hile treaties may comprise international commitments . . . they
are not domestic law unless Congress has either enacted implement-
ing statutes or the treaty itself conveys an intention that it be self-
executing and is ratified on these terms.” 293 A memorandum from
the President of the United States directing that the United States
would “discharge its international obligations” under an ICJ deci-
sion interpreting a non-self-executing treaty, “by having State courts
give effect to the decision,” is not sufficient to make the decision
binding on state courts, unless the President’s action is authorized
by Congress.294
     291 Sanchez-Llamas v. Oregon, 548 U.S. at 354, quoting Statute of the Interna-

tional Court of Justice, Art. 59, 59 Stat. 1062, T.S. No. 933 (1945) (emphasis added
by the Court).
     292 Sanchez-Llamas v. Oregon, 548 U.S. at 355, quoting Breard v. Greene, 523

U.S. 371, 375 (1998) (per curiam).
     293 Medellin v. Texas, 128 S. Ct. 1346, 1356 (2008) (emphasis in the original,

internal quotation marks omitted). As in the case of the foreign nationals in Sanchez-
Llamas, Medellin’s nation’s consul had not been notified that he had been detained
in the United States. Unlike the foreign nationals in Sanchez-Llamas, however, Medel-
lin was named in an ICJ decision that found a violation of Article 36 of the Vienna
Convention.
     294 Medellin v. Texas, 128 S. Ct. 1346, 1353 (2008). “[T]he non-self-executing char-

acter of a treaty constrains the President’s ability to comply with treaty commit-
ments by unilaterally making the treaty binding on domestic courts.” Id. at 1371.
The majority opinion in Medellin was written by Chief Justice Roberts. Justice Ste-
vens, concurring, noted that, even though the ICJ decision “is not ‘the supreme Law
of the Land,’ U.S. Const., Art VI, cl. 2,” it constitutes an international law obliga-
tion not only on the part of the United States, but on the part of the State of Texas.
Id. at 1374. This, of course, does not make it enforceable against Texas, but Justice
Stevens found that “[t]he cost to Texas of complying with [the ICJ decision] would
be minimal.” Id. at 1375. Justice Breyer, joined by Justices Souter and Ginsburg,
dissented, writing that “the consent of the United States to the ICJ’s jurisdiction[ ]
bind[s] the courts no less than would ‘an act of the [federal] legislature.’ ” Id. at 1376.
The dissent believed that, to find treaties non-self-executing “can threaten the appli-
cation of provisions in many existing commercial and other treaties and make it
more difficult to negotiate new ones.” Id. at 1381–82. Moreover, Justice Breyer wrote,
the Court’s decision “place[s] the fate of an international promise made by the United
States in the hands of a single State. . . . And that is precisely the situation that
