ments may be made locating the power in the President alone, in
the President and Senate, or in the Congress. Presidents generally
have asserted the foreign relations power reposed in them under
Article II and the inherent powers argument made in Curtiss-
Wright. Because the Constitution requires the consent of the Sen-
ate for making a treaty, one can logically argue that its consent is
also required for terminating it. Finally, because treaties are, like
statutes, the supreme law of the land, it may well be argued that,
again like statutes, they may be undone only through law-making
by the entire Congress; additionally, since Congress may be re-
quired to implement treaties and may displace them through legis-
lation, this argument is reenforced.
    Definitive resolution of this argument appears only remotely pos-
sible. Historical practice provides support for all three arguments
and the judicial branch seems unlikely to essay any answer.
    Although abrogation of the French treaty, mentioned above, is
apparently the only example of termination by Congress through a
public law, many instances may be cited of congressional actions
mandating terminations by notice of the President or changing the
legal environment so that the President is required to terminate.
The initial precedent in the instance of termination by notice pur-
suant to congressional action appears to have occurred in 1846,381
when by joint resolution Congress authorized the President at his
discretion to notify the British government of the abrogation of the
Convention of August 6, 1827, relative to the joint occupation of the
Oregon Territory. As the President himself had requested the reso-
lution, the episode is often cited to support the theory that interna-
tional conventions to which the United States is a party, even those
terminable on notice, are terminable only through action of Con-
gress.382 Subsequently, Congress has often passed resolutions de-
nouncing treaties or treaty provisions, which by their own terms
were terminable on notice, and Presidents have usually, though not
invariably, carried out such resolutions.383 By the La Follette-
Furuseth Seaman’s Act,384 President Wilson was directed, “within
ninety days after the passage of the act, to give notice to foreign
governments that so much of any treaties as might be in conflict
with the provisions of the act would terminate on the expiration of
    381 Compare the different views of the 1846 action in Treaty Termination: Hear-

ings Before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, 96th Congress, 1st Sess. (1979),
160–162 (memorandum of Hon. Herbert Hansell, Legal Advisor, Department of State),
and in Taiwan: Hearings Before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, 96th
Congress, 1st Sess. (1979), 300 (memorandum of Senator Goldwater).
    382 S. Crandall, supra, at 458–459.
    383 Id. at 459–62; Q. Wright, supra, at 258.
    384 38 Stat. 1164 (1915).
