     Hamilton and Madison.—Hamilton’s defense of President Wash-
ington’s issuance of a neutrality proclamation upon the outbreak of
war between France and Great Britain contains not only the lines
but most of the content of the argument that Article II vests signifi-
cant powers in the President as possessor of executive powers not
enumerated in subsequent sections of Article II.17 Hamilton wrote:
“The second article of the Constitution of the United States, sec-
tion first, establishes this general proposition, that ‘the Executive
Power shall be vested in a President of the United States of America.’
The same article, in a succeeding section, proceeds to delineate par-
ticular cases of executive power. It declares, among other things,
that the president shall be commander in chief of the army and
navy of the United States, and of the militia of the several states,
when called into the actual service of the United States; that he
shall have power, by and with the advice and consent of the sen-
ate, to make treaties; that it shall be his duty to receive ambassa-
dors and other public ministers, and to take care that the laws be
faithfully executed. It would not consist with the rules of sound con-
struction, to consider this enumeration of particular authorities as
derogating from the more comprehensive grant in the general clause,
further than as it may be coupled with express restrictions or limi-
tations; as in regard to the co-operation of the senate in the appoint-
ment of officers, and the making of treaties; which are plainly quali-
fications of the general executive powers of appointing officers and
making treaties.”
     “The difficulty of a complete enumeration of all the cases of ex-
ecutive authority, would naturally dictate the use of general terms,
and would render it improbable that a specification of certain par-
ticulars was designed as a substitute for those terms, when ante-
cedently used. The different mode of expression employed in the con-
stitution, in regard to the two powers, the legislative and the executive,
serves to confirm this inference. In the article which gives the leg-
islative powers of the government, the expressions are, ‘All legisla-
tive powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United
States.’ In that which grants the executive power, the expressions
are, ‘The executive power shall be vested in a President of the United
States.’ The enumeration ought therefore to be considered, as in-
tended merely to specify the principal articles implied in the defini-
tion of executive power; leaving the rest to flow from the general
grant of that power, interpreted in conformity with other parts of
the Constitution, and with the principles of free government. The
general doctrine of our Constitution then is, that the executive power
   17 32 WRITINGS OF GEORGE WASHINGTON 430 (J. Fitzpatrick ed., 1939). See C. THOMAS,

AMERICAN NEUTRALITY IN 1793: A STUDY IN CABINET GOVERNMENT (1931).
