leaves little room for the notion of a limited treaty-making power
with regard to the reserved rights of the states or in regard to the
choice of matters concerning which the Federal Government may
treat with other nations; protected individual rights appear to be
sheltered by specific constitutional guarantees from the domestic ef-
fects of treaties, and the separation of powers at the federal level
may require legislative action to give municipal effect to interna-
tional agreements.

Interpretation and Termination of Treaties as International
  Compacts
    The repeal by Congress of the “self-executing” clauses of a treaty
as “law of the land” does not of itself terminate the treaty as an
international contract, although it may very well provoke the other
party to the treaty to do so. Hence, the questions arise where the
Constitution lodges this power and where it lodges the power to
interpret the contractual provisions of treaties. The first case of out-
right abrogation of a treaty by the United States occurred in 1798,
when Congress by the Act of July 7 of that year, pronounced the
United States freed and exonerated from the stipulations of the Trea-
ties of 1778 with France.378 This act was followed two days later
by one authorizing limited hostilities against the same country; in
Bas v. Tingy,379 the Supreme Court treated the act of abrogation as
simply one of a bundle of acts declaring “public war” upon the French
Republic.
    Termination of Treaties by Notice.—Typically, a treaty pro-
vides for its termination by notice of one of the parties, usually af-
ter a prescribed time from the date of notice. Of course, treaties
may also be terminated by agreement of the parties, or by breach
by one of the parties, or by some other means. But it is in the in-
stance of termination by notice that the issue has frequently been
raised: where in the Government of the United States does the Con-
stitution lodge the power to unmake treaties? 380 Reasonable argu-
    378 1 Stat. 578 (1798).
    379 4 U.S. (4 Dall.) 37 (1800). See also Gray v. United States, 21 Ct. Cl. 340
(1886), with respect to claims arising out of this situation.
    380 The matter was most extensively canvassed in the debate with respect to

President Carter’s termination of the Mutual Defense Treaty of 1954 with the Re-
public of China (Taiwan). See, e.g., the various views argued in Treaty Termination:
Hearings Before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, 96th Congress, 1st Sess.
(1979). On the issue generally, see Restatement, Foreign Relations, § 339; CRS Study,
supra, 158–167; L. Henkin, supra, at 167–171; Bestor, Respective Roles of Senate
and President in the Making and Abrogation of Treaties: The Original Intent of the
Framers of the Constitution Historically Examined, 55 WASH. L. REV. 1 (1979); Berger,
The President’s Unilateral Termination of the Taiwan Treaty, 75 NW. U. L. REV. 577
(1980).
