transfers legislative and treaty-making power to the President.” 433
Although two Justices disagreed, the question has never been re-
vived. However, in B. Altman & Co. v. United States,434 decided twenty
years later, a collateral question was passed upon. This was whether
an act of Congress that gave the federal circuit courts of appeal
jurisdiction of cases in which “the validity or construction of any
treaty . . . was drawn in question” embraced a case involving a trade
agreement which had been made under the sanction of the Tariff
Act of 1897. The Court answered: “While it may be true that this
commercial agreement, made under authority of the Tariff Act of
1897, § 3, was not a treaty possessing the dignity of one requiring
ratification by the Senate of the United States, it was an interna-
tional compact, negotiated between the representatives of two sov-
ereign nations and made in the name and on behalf of the contract-
ing countries, and dealing with important commercial relations between
the two countries, and was proclaimed by the President. If not tech-
nically a treaty requiring ratification, nevertheless, it was a com-
pact authorized by the Congress of the United States, negotiated
and proclaimed under the authority of its President. We think such
a compact is a treaty under the Circuit Court of Appeals Act, and,
where its construction is directly involved, as it is here, there is a
right of review by direct appeal to this court.” 435
    The Lend-Lease Act.—The most extensive delegation of author-
ity ever made by Congress to the President to enter into executive
agreements occurred within the field of the cognate powers of the
two departments, the field of foreign relations, and took place at a
time when war appeared to be in the offing and was in fact only a
few months away. The legislation referred to is the Lend-Lease Act
of March 11, 1941,436 by which the President was empowered for
over two years—and subsequently for additional periods whenever
he deemed it in the interest of the national defense to do so—to
authorize “the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, or the
head of any other department or agency of the Government,” to manu-
facture in the government arsenals, factories, and shipyards, or “oth-
erwise procure,” to the extent that available funds made possible,
“defense articles”—later amended to include foodstuffs and indus-
     433 143 U.S. at 694. See also Dames & Moore v. Regan, 453 U.S. 654 (1981), in

which the Court sustained a series of implementing actions by the President pursu-
ant to executive agreements with Iran in order to settle the hostage crisis. The Court
found that Congress had delegated to the President certain economic powers under-
lying the agreements and that his suspension of claims powers had been implicitly
ratified over time by Congress’s failure to set aside the asserted power. Also see
Weinberger v. Rossi, 456 U.S. 25, 29–30 n.6 (1982).
     434 224 U.S. 583 (1912).
     435 224 U.S. at 601.
     436 55 Stat. 31.
