and security. 2. Such agreement or agreements shall govern the num-
bers and types of forces, their degree of readiness and general loca-
tion, and the nature of the facilities and assistance to be provided.
3. The agreement or agreements shall be negotiated as soon as pos-
sible on the initiative of the Security Council. They shall be con-
cluded between the Security Council and Members or between the
Security Council and groups of Members and shall be subject to rati-
fication by the signatory states in accordance with their respective
constitutional processes.” 442 This time the Senate did not boggle over
the word “agreement.”
     The United Nations Participation Act of December 20, 1945, imple-
ments these provisions as follows: “The President is authorized to
negotiate a special agreement or agreements with the Security Coun-
cil which shall be subject to the approval of the Congress by appro-
priate Act or joint resolution, providing for the numbers and types
of armed forces, their degree of readiness and general location, and
the nature of facilities and assistance, including rights of passage,
to be made available to the Security Council on its call for the pur-
pose of maintaining international peace and security in accordance
with article 43 of said Charter. The President shall not be deemed
to require the authorization of the Congress to make available to
the Security Council on its call in order to take action under ar-
ticle 42 of said Charter and pursuant to such special agreement or
agreements the armed forces, facilities, or assistance provided for
therein: Provided, That nothing herein contained shall be con-
strued as an authorization to the President by the Congress to make
available to the Security Council for such purpose armed forces, fa-
cilities, or assistance in addition to the forces, facilities, and assis-
tance provided for in such special agreement or agreements.” 443
    Status of Forces Agreements.—Status of Forces Agreements,
negotiated pursuant to authorizations contained in treaties be-
tween the United States and foreign nations in the territory of which
American troops and their dependents are stationed, afford the United
States a qualified privilege, which may be waived, of trying by court
martial soldiers and their dependents charged with commission of
offenses normally within the exclusive criminal jurisdiction of the
foreign signatory power. When the United States, in conformity with
the waiver clause in such an Agreement, consented to the trial in a
Japanese court of a soldier charged with causing the death of a Japa-
nese woman on a firing range in that country, the Court could “find

    442 A Decade of American Foreign Policy, S. Doc. No. 123, 81st Cong., 1st Sess.,

126 (1950).
    443 Id. at 158.
