trial products—and “sell, transfer title to, exchange, lease, lend, or
otherwise dispose of,” the same to the “government of any country
whose defense the President deems vital to the defense of the United
States,” and on any terms that he “deems satisfactory.” Under this
authorization the United States entered into Mutual Aid Agree-
ments under which the government furnished its allies in World
War II with 40 billion dollars’ worth of munitions of war and other
supplies.
    International Organizations.—Overlapping of the treaty-
making power through congressional-executive cooperation in inter-
national agreements is also demonstrated by the use of resolutions
approving the United States joining of international organiza-
tions 437 and participating in international conventions.438
Executive Agreements Authorized by Treaties
     Arbitration Agreements.—In 1904 and 1905, Secretary of State
John Hay negotiated a series of treaties providing for the general
arbitration of international disputes. Article II of the treaty with
Great Britain, for example, provided as follows: “In each individual
case the High Contracting Parties, before appealing to the Perma-
nent Court of Arbitration, shall conclude a special Agreement defin-
ing clearly the matter in dispute and the scope of the powers of the
Arbitrators, and fixing the periods for the formation of the Arbitral
Tribunal and the several stages of the procedure.” 439 The Senate
approved the British treaty by the constitutional majority having,
however, first amended it by substituting the word “treaty” for “agree-
ment.” President Theodore Roosevelt, characterizing the “ratifica-
tion” as equivalent to rejection, sent the treaties to repose in the
archives. “As a matter of historical practice,” Dr. McClure com-
ments, “the compromise under which disputes have been arbi-
trated include both treaties and executive agreements in goodly num-
bers,” 440 a statement supported by both Willoughby and Moore.441
     Agreements Under the United Nations Charter.—Article 43
of the United Nations Charter provides: “1. All Members of the United
Nations, in order to contribute to the maintenance of international
peace and security, undertake to make available to the Security Coun-
cil, on its call and in accordance with a special agreement or agree-
ments, armed forces, assistance, and facilities, including rights of
passage, necessary for the purpose of maintaining international peace
     437 E.g., 48 Stat. 1182 (1934), authorizing the President to accept membership

for the United States in the International Labor Organization.
     438 See E. Corwin, supra at 216.
     439 W. McClure, supra at 13–14.
     440 Id. at 14.
     441 1 W. Willoughby, supra at 543.
