no constitutional barrier” to such action.444 However, at least five
of the Supreme Court Justices were persuaded to reject at length
the contention that such Agreements could sustain, as necessary and
proper for their effectuation, implementing legislation subse-
quently found by the Court to contravene constitutional guaranties
set forth in the Bill of Rights.445

Executive Agreements on the Sole Constitutional Authority
 of the President
    Many types of executive agreements comprise the ordinary daily
grist of the diplomatic mill. Among these are such as apply to mi-
nor territorial adjustments, boundary rectifications, the policing of
boundaries, the regulation of fishing rights, private pecuniary claims
against another government or its nationals, in Story’s words, “the
mere private rights of sovereignty.” 446 Crandall lists scores of such
agreements entered into with other governments by the authoriza-
tion of the President.447 Such agreements were ordinarily directed
to particular and comparatively trivial disputes and by the settle-
ment they effect of these cease ipso facto to be operative. Also, there
are such time-honored diplomatic devices as the “protocol” which
marks a stage in the negotiation of a treaty, and the modus vi-
vendi, which is designed to serve as a temporary substitute for one.
Executive agreements become of constitutional significance when they
constitute a determinative factor of future foreign policy and hence
of the country’s destiny. In consequence particularly of our partici-
pation in World War II and our immersion in the conditions of in-
ternational tension which prevailed both before and after the war,
Presidents have entered into agreements with other governments
some of which have approximated temporary alliances. It cannot
be justly said, however, that in so doing they have acted without
considerable support from precedent.
    An early instance of executive treaty-making was the agree-
ment by which President Monroe in 1817 defined the limits of ar-
maments on the Great Lakes. The arrangement was effected by an
exchange of notes, which nearly a year later were laid before the
Senate with a query as to whether it was within the President’s
power, or whether advice and consent of the Senate was required.
The Senate approved the agreement by the required two-thirds vote,
and it was forthwith proclaimed by the President without there hav-
    444 Wilson v. Girard, 354 U.S. 524 (1957).
    445 Reid v. Covert, 354 U.S. 1, 16–17 (1957) (plurality opinion); id. at 66 (Justice
Harlan concurring).
    446 3 J. STORY, COMMENTARIES ON THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 1397 (1833).
    447 S. Crandall, supra, ch. 8; see also W. McClure, supra, chs. 1, 2.
