persons from whom the Senate may choose a Vice President when-
ever the right of choice shall have devolved upon them.
    Sections 1 and 2 shall take effect on the 15th day of Octo-
ber following the ratification of this article.
    This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been
ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legisla-
tures of three-fourths of the several States within seven years
from the date of its submission.
                         PURPOSE OF THE AMENDMENT
             In its report on the proposed Twentieth Amendment, the Sen-
        ate Committee on the Judiciary suggested several reasons for its
        passage and ratification. It said in part:
             “[W]hen our Constitution was adopted there was some reason
        for such a long intervention of time between the election and the
        actual commencement of work by the new Congress. . . . Under pres-
        ent conditions [of communication and transportation] the result of
        elections is known all over the country within a few hours after
        the polls close, and the Capital City is within a few days’ travel of
        the remotest portions of the country. . . .”
             “Another effect of the amendment would be to abolish the so-
        called short session of Congress. . . . Every other year, under our
        Constitution, the terms of Members of the House and one-third of
        the Members of the Senate expire on the 4th day of March. . . .
        Experience has shown that this brings about a very undesirable leg-
        islative condition. It is a physical impossibility during such a short
        session for Congress to give attention to much general legislation
        for the reason that it requires practically all of the time to dispose
        of the regular appropriation bills. . . . The result is a congested con-
        dition that brings about either no legislation or illy considered leg-
        islation. . . .”
             “If it should happen that in the general election in November
        in presidential years no candidate for President had received a ma-
        jority of all the electoral votes, the election of a President would
        then be thrown into the House of Representatives and the member-
        ships of the House of Representatives called upon to elect a Presi-
        dent would be the old Congress and not the new one just elected
        by the people. It might easily happen that the Members of the House
        of Representative, upon whom devolved the solemn duty of electing
        a Chief Magistrate for 4 years, had themselves been repudiated at
