the election that had just occurred, and the country would be con-
fronted with the fact that a repudiated House, defeated by the people
themselves at the general election, would still have the power to
elect a President who would be in control of the country for the
next 4 years. It is quite apparent that such a power ought not to
exist, and that the people having expressed themselves at the bal-
lot box should through the Representatives then selected, be able
to select the President for the ensuing term. . . .”
     “The question is sometimes asked, Why is an amendment to the
Constitution necessary to bring about this desirable change? The
Constitution [before this amendment] does not provide the date when
the terms of Senators and Representatives shall begin. It does fix
the term of Senators at 6 years and of Members of the House of
Representatives at 2 years. The commencement of the terms of the
first President and Vice President and of Senators and Representa-
tives composing the First Congress was fixed by an act of [the Con-
tinental] Congress adopted September 13, 1788, and that act pro-
vided ‘that the first Wednesday in March next to be the time for
commencing proceedings under the Constitution.’ It happened that
the first Wednesday in March was the 4th day of March, and hence
the terms of the President and Vice President and Members of Con-
gress began on the 4th day of March. Since the Constitution pro-
vides that the term of Senators shall be 6 years and the term of
Members of the House of Representatives 2 years, it follows that
this change cannot be made without changing the terms of office of
Senators and Representatives, which would in effect be a change of
the Constitution. By another act (the act of March 1, 1792) Con-
gress provided that the terms of President and Vice President should
commence on the 4th day of March after their election. It seems
clear, therefore, that an amendment to the Constitution is neces-
sary to give relief from existing conditions.” 1
     As thus stated, the exact term of the President and Vice Presi-
dent was fixed by the Constitution, Art. II, § 1, cl. 1, at 4 years,
and became actually effective, by resolution of the Continental Con-
gress, on the 4th of March 1789. Since this amendment was de-
clared adopted on February 6, 1933, § 1 in effect shortened, by the
interval between January 20 and March 4, 1937, the terms of the
President and Vice President elected in 1932.
     Similarly, it shortened, by the intervals between January 3 and
March 4, the terms of Senators elected for terms ending March 4,
1935, 1937, and 1939; and thus temporarily modified the Seven-
teenth Amendment, fixing the terms of Senators at 6 years. It also
   1   S. REP. NO. 26, 72d Cong., 1st Sess. 2, 4, 5, 6 (1932).
