eral trials the common-law rule that in cases of treason or felony
the accused was not allowed to introduce witnesses in his de-
fense.257 “The right to offer the testimony of witnesses, and to com-
pel their attendance, if necessary, is in plain terms the right to pres-
ent a defense, the right to present the defendant’s version of the
facts as well as the prosecution’s to the jury so it may decide where
the truth lies. Just as an accused has the right to confront the pros-
ecution’s witnesses for the purpose of challenging their testimony,
he has the right to present his own witnesses to establish a de-
fense. This right is a fundamental element of due process of law,”
applicable to states by way of the Fourteenth Amendment, and the
right is violated by a state law providing that coparticipants in the
same crime could not testify for one another.258
    The right to present witnesses is not absolute, however; a court
may refuse to allow a defense witness to testify when the court finds
that defendant’s counsel willfully failed to identify the witness in a
pretrial discovery request and thereby attempted to gain a tactical
advantage.259
    In Pennsylvania v. Ritchie, the Court indicated that requests to
compel the government to reveal the identity of witnesses or pro-
duce exculpatory evidence should be evaluated under due process
rather than compulsory process analysis, adding that “compulsory
process provides no greater protections in this area than due pro-
cess.” 260

                        ASSISTANCE OF COUNSEL

Absolute Right to Counsel at Trial
     Historical Practice.—The records of neither the Congress that
proposed what became the Sixth Amendment nor the state ratify-
ing conventions elucidate the language on assistance of counsel. The
development of the common-law principle in England had denied
to anyone charged with a felony the right to retain counsel, while
the right was afforded in misdemeanor cases. This rule was amelio-
rated in practice, however, by the judicial practice of allowing coun-
sel to argue points of law and then generously interpreting the lim-
its of “legal questions.” Colonial and early state practice varied, ranging
    257 3 J. STORY, COMMENTARIES ON THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 1786 (1833).

See Rosen v. United States, 245 U.S. 467 (1918).
    258 Washington v. Texas, 388 U.S. 14, 19–23 (1967). Texas permitted co-

participants to testify for the prosecution.
    259 Taylor v. Illinois, 484 U.S. 400 (1988).
    260 480 U.S. 39, 56 (1987) (ordering trial court review of files of child services

agency to determine whether they contain evidence material to defense in child abuse
prosecution).
