mining for himself whether the indictment is good or bad. He is
unfamiliar with the rules of evidence. Left without the aid of coun-
sel he may be put on trial without a proper charge, and convicted
upon incompetent evidence, or evidence irrelevant to the issue or
otherwise inadmissible. He lacks both the skill and knowledge ad-
equately to prepare his defense, even though he have a perfect one.
He requires the guiding hand of counsel at every step in the pro-
ceedings against him. Without it, though he be not guilty, he faces
the danger of conviction because he does not know how to establish
his innocence.” 265
     The failure to afford the defendants an opportunity to retain
counsel violated due process, but the Court acknowledged that as
indigents the youths could not have retained counsel. Therefore, the
Court concluded, under the circumstances—“the ignorance and illit-
eracy of the defendants, their youth, the circumstances of public hos-
tility, the imprisonment and the close surveillance of the defen-
dants by the military forces, the fact that their friends and families
were all in other states and communication with them necessarily
difficult, and above all that they stood in deadly peril of their lives”—
“the necessity of counsel was so vital and imperative that the fail-
ure of the trial court to make an effective appointment of counsel
was likewise a denial of due process within the meaning of the Four-
teenth Amendment.” The holding was narrow. “[I]n a capital case,
where the defendant is unable to employ counsel, and is incapable
adequately of making his own defense because of ignorance, feeble
mindedness, illiteracy, or the like, it is the duty of the court, whether
requested or not, to assign counsel for him as a necessary requisite
of due process of law . . . .” 266
    The next step in the expansion came in Johnson v. Zerbst,267 in
which the Court announced an absolute rule requiring appoint-
ment of counsel for federal criminal defendants who could not af-
ford to retain a lawyer. The right to assistance of counsel, Justice
Black wrote for the Court, “is necessary to insure fundamental hu-
man rights of life and liberty.” Without stopping to distinguish be-
tween the right to retain counsel and the right to have counsel pro-
vided if the defendant cannot afford to hire one, the Justice quoted
Justice Sutherland’s invocation of the necessity of legal counsel for
even the intelligent and educated layman and said: “The Sixth Amend-
ment withholds from federal courts, in all criminal proceedings, the
power and authority to deprive an accused of his life or liberty un-

   265 287 U.S. at 68–69.
   266 287 U.S. at 71.
   267 304 U.S. 458 (1938).
