evidence for the two distinct but interrelated functions.149 For the
same reasons, there is no violation of the right to an impartial jury
if a defendant for whom capital charges have been dropped is tried,
along with a codefendant still facing capital charges, before a “death
qualified” jury.150
    In Uttecht v. Brown,151 the Court summed up four principles
that it derived from Witherspoon and Witt: “First a criminal defen-
dant has the right to an impartial jury drawn from a venire that
has not been tilted in favor of capital punishment by selective
prosecutorial challenges for cause. Second, the State has a strong
interest in having jurors who are able to apply capital punishment
within the framework state law prescribes. Third, to balance these
interests, a juror who is substantially impaired in his or her ability
to impose the death penalty under the state-law framework can be
excused for cause; but if the juror is not substantially impaired, re-
moval for cause is impermissible. Fourth, in determining whether
the removal of a potential juror would vindicate the State’s inter-
est without violating the defendant’s right, the trial court makes a
judgment based in part on the demeanor of the juror, a judgment
owed deference by reviewing courts.” 152
    Exclusion of one juror qualified under Witherspoon constitutes
reversible error, and the exclusion may not be subjected to harm-
less error analysis.153 However, a court’s error in refusing to dis-

    149  476 U.S. at 180.
    150  Buchanan v. Kentucky, 483 U.S. 402 (1987).
     151 551 U.S. 1 (2007).
     152 551 U.S. at 9 (citations omitted). Deference was the focus of Uttecht v. Brown,

as the Court, by a 5-to-4 vote, reversed the Ninth Circuit and affirmed a death sen-
tence, finding that the Ninth Circuit had neglected to accord the deference it owed
to the trial court’s finding that a juror was not substantially impaired. The Court
concluded: “Courts reviewing claims of Witherspoon-Witt error . . . , especially fed-
eral courts considering habeas petitions, owe deference to the trial court, which is
in a superior position to determine the demeanor and qualifications of a potential
juror.” Id. at 22. The reason that federal courts of appeals owe special deference
when considering habeas petitions is that the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Pen-
alty Act of 1996 “provide[s] additional, and binding, directions to accord deference.”
Id. at 10. The dissent, written by Justice Stevens and joined by Justices Souter,
Ginsburg, and Breyer, noted that the juror whose exclusion for cause was chal-
lenged had “repeatedly confirmed” that, despite his “general reservations” about the
death penalty, he would be able to vote for it. Id. at 37. Even under the standard of
review imposed by the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, “[w]hile
such testimony might justify a peremptory challenge, until today not one of the many
cases decided in the wake of Witherspoon v. Illinois has suggested that such a view
would support a challenge for cause. . . . In its opinion, the Court blindly accepts
the state court’s conclusory statement that [the juror’s] views would have ‘substan-
tially impaired’ his ability to follow the court’s instructions without examining what
that term means in practice and under our precedents.” Id. at 37, 38 (citation to
Witherspoon omitted).
     153 Gray v. Mississippi, 481 U.S. 648 (1987).
