basis of innumerable other generalized characteristics.” 169 To rule
otherwise, the Court reasoned, “would cripple the device of peremp-
tory challenge” and thereby undermine the Amendment’s goal of “im-
partiality with respect to both contestants.” 170
     The restraint on racially discriminatory use of peremptory chal-
lenges is now a two-way street. The Court ruled in 1992 that a crimi-
nal defendant’s use of peremptory challenges to exclude jurors on
the basis of race constitutes “state action” in violation of the Equal
Protection Clause.171 Disputing the contention that this limitation
would undermine “the contribution of the peremptory challenge to
the administration of justice,” the Court nonetheless asserted that
such a result would in any event be “too high” a price to pay. “It is
an affront to justice to argue that a fair trail includes the right to
discriminate against a group of citizens based upon their race.” 172
It followed, therefore, that the limitation on peremptory challenges
does not violate a defendant’s right to an impartial jury. Although
a defendant has “the right to an impartial jury that can view him
without racial animus,” this means that “there should be a mecha-
nism for removing those [jurors] who would be incapable of confront-
ing and suppressing their racism,” not that the defendant may re-
move jurors on the basis of race or racial stereotypes.173

           PLACE OF TRIAL: JURY OF THE VICINAGE
    Article III, § 2 requires that federal criminal cases be tried by
jury in the state and district in which the offense was commit-
ted,174 but much criticism arose over the absence of any guarantee
that the jury be drawn from the “vicinage” or neighborhood of the

    169  493 U.S. at 487.
    170  493 U.S. at 484. As a consequence, a defendant who uses a peremptory chal-
lenge to correct the court’s error in denying a for-cause challenge may have no Sixth
Amendment cause of action. Peremptory challenges “are a means to achieve the end
of an impartial jury. So long as the jury that sits is impartial, the fact that the
defendant had to use a peremptory challenge to achieve that result does not mean
the Sixth Amendment was violated.” Ross v. Oklahoma, 487 U.S. 81, 88 (1987). Simi-
larly, there is no due process violation, at least where state statutory law requires
use of peremptory challenges to cure erroneous refusals by the court to excuse ju-
rors for cause. “It is for the State to determine the number of peremptory chal-
lenges allowed and to define their purpose and the manner of their exercise.” Id.
     171 Georgia v. McCollum, 505 U.S. 42 (1992).
     172 505 U.S. at 57.
     173 505 U.S. at 58.
     174 “The Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall be by Jury;

and such Trial shall be held in the State where the said Crime shall have been
committed; but when not committed within any State, the Trial shall be at such
Place or Places as the Congress may by law have directed.”
