Iowa,243 the Court held that the right of confrontation is violated
by a procedure, authorized by statute, placing a one-way screen be-
tween complaining child witnesses and the defendant, thereby spar-
ing the witnesses from viewing the defendant. This conclusion was
reached even though the witnesses could be viewed by the defen-
dant’s counsel and by the judge and jury, even though the right of
cross-examination was in no way limited, and even though the state
asserted a strong interest in protecting child sex-abuse victims from
further trauma.244 The Court’s opinion by Justice Scalia declared
that a defendant’s right during his trial to face-to-face confronta-
tion with his accusers derives from “the irreducible literal meaning
of the clause,” and traces “to the beginnings of Western legal cul-
ture.” 245 Squarely rejecting the Wigmore view “that the only essen-
tial interest preserved by the right was cross-examination,” 246 the
Court emphasized the importance of face-to-face confrontation in elic-
iting truthful testimony.
     Coy’s interpretation of the Confrontation Clause, though not its
result, was rejected in Maryland v. Craig.247 In Craig, the Court
upheld Maryland’s use of one-way, closed circuit television to pro-
tect a child witness in a sex crime from viewing the defendant. As
in Coy, procedural protections other than confrontation were af-
forded: the child witness must testify under oath, is subject to cross
examination, and is viewed by the judge, jury, and defendant. The
critical factual difference between the two cases was that Mary-
land required a case-specific finding that the child witness would
be traumatized by presence of the defendant, while the Iowa proce-
dures struck down in Coy rested on a statutory presumption of trauma.
But the difference in approach is explained by the fact that Justice
O’Connor’s views, expressed in a concurring opinion in Coy, be-
came the opinion of the Court in Craig.248 Beginning with the propo-
sition that the Confrontation Clause does not, as evidenced by hear-
say exceptions, grant an absolute right to face-to-face confrontation,
the Court in Craig described the clause as “reflect[ing] a preference
    243  487 U.S. 1012 (1988).
    244  On this latter point, the Court indicated that only “individualized findings,”
rather than statutory presumption, could suffice to create an exception to the rule.
487 U.S. at 1021.
     245 487 U.S. at 1015, 1021.
     246 487 U.S. at 1018 n.2.
     247 497 U.S. 836 (1990).
     248 Coy was decided by a 6–2 vote. Justice Scalia’s opinion of the Court was joined

by Justices Brennan, White, Marshall, Stevens, and O’Connor; Justice O’Connor’s
separate concurring opinion was joined by Justice White; Justice Blackmun’s dissent-
ing opinion was joined by Chief Justice Rehnquist; and Justice Kennedy did not par-
ticipate. In Craig, a 5–4 decision, Justice O’Connor’s opinion of the Court was joined
by the two Coy dissenters and by Justices White and Kennedy. Justice Scalia’s dis-
sent was joined by Justices Brennan, Marshall, and Stevens.
