formally charged with an offense than before.” 373 The protection,
however, is not as broad under the Sixth Amendment as it is under
the Fifth. Although Edwards has been extended to bar custodial ques-
tioning stemming from a separate investigation as well as question-
ing relating to the crime for which the suspect was arrested,374 this
extension does not apply for purposes of the Sixth Amendment right
to counsel. The Sixth Amendment right is “offense-specific,” and so
also is “its Michigan v. Jackson effect of invalidating subsequent
waivers in police-initiated interviews.” 375 Therefore, although a de-
fendant who has invoked his Sixth Amendment right to counsel with
respect to the offense for which he is being prosecuted may not waive
that right, he may waive his Miranda-based right not to be interro-
gated about unrelated and uncharged offenses.376
    In Montejo v. Louisiana,377 the Court overruled Michigan v. Jack-
son, finding that the Fifth Amendment’s “Miranda-Edwards-
Minnick line of cases” constitutes sufficient protection of the right
to counsel. In Montejo, the defendant had not actually requested a
lawyer, but had stood mute at a preliminary hearing at which the
judge ordered the appointment of counsel. Later, before Montejo had
met his attorney, two police detectives read him his Miranda rights
and he agreed to be interrogated. Michigan v. Jackson had prohib-
ited waivers of the right to counsel after a defendant’s assertion of
the right to counsel, so the Court in Montejo was faced with the
question of whether Michigan v. Jackson applied where an attor-
ney had been appointed in the absence of such an assertion.
    The Court in Montejo noted that “[n]o reason exists to assume
that a defendant like Montejo, who has done nothing at all to ex-
press his intentions with respect to his Sixth Amendment rights,
would not be perfectly amenable to speaking with the police with-

     373 475 U.S. at 631. If a prisoner does not ask for the assistance of counsel, how-

ever, and voluntarily waives his rights following a Miranda warning, these reasons
disappear. Moreover, although the right to counsel is more difficult to waive at trial
than before trial, “whatever standards suffice for Miranda’s purposes will also be
sufficient [for waiver of Sixth Amendment rights] in the context of postindictment
questioning.” Patterson v. Illinois, 487 U.S. 285, 298 (1988).
     374 Arizona v. Roberson, 486 U.S. 675 (1988).
     375 McNeil v. Wisconsin, 501 U.S. 171, 175 (1991). The reason that the right is

“offense-specific” is that “it does not attach until a prosecution is commenced.” Id.
     376 Rejecting an exception to the offense-specific limitation for crimes that are

closely related factually to a charged offense, the Court instead borrowed the Blockburger
test from double-jeopardy law: if the same transaction constitutes a violation of two
separate statutory provisions, the test is “whether each provision requires proof of a
fact which the other does not.” Texas v. Cobb, 532 U.S. 162, 173 (2001). This meant
that the defendant, who had been charged with burglary, had a right to counsel on
that charge, but not with respect to murders committed during the burglary.
     377 556 U.S. ___, No. 07–1529, slip op. at 15 (2009).
