trial court closed jury selection proceedings without having first ex-
plored alternatives to closure on its own initiative.41
     The Sixth Amendment right to a public trial and the First Amend-
ment right to public access both presume that opening criminal pro-
ceedings helps ensure their fairness, but there are circumstances
in which an accused might consider openness and its attendant pub-
licity to be unfairly prejudicial. In this regard, the Sixth Amend-
ment right of an accused to a public trial does not carry with it a
right to a private trial. Rather, it is the accused’s broader right to
a fair trial and the government’s interest in orderly judicial admin-
istration that are weighed in the balance against the public’s First
Amendment right to access.
     The Court has no preset constitutional priorities in resolving
these conflicts. Still, certain factors are evident in the Court’s analy-
sis, including whether restrictions on access are complete or par-
tial, permanent or time-limited, or imposed with or without full con-
sideration of alternatives. When the complete closure of the record
of a normally open proceeding is sought, the accused faces a formi-
dable burden. Thus, in Press-Enterprise Co. v. Superior Court the
Court reversed state closure of a preliminary hearing in a notori-
ous murder trial, a closure signed off on by the defendant, prosecu-
tion, and trial judge: “If the interest asserted is the right of the
accused to a fair trial, the preliminary hearing shall be closed only
if specific findings are made demonstrating that first, there is a sub-
stantial probability that the defendant’s right to a fair trial will be
prejudiced by publicity that closure would prevent, and second, rea-
sonable alternatives to closure cannot adequately protect the defen-
dant’s fair trial rights.” 42 In the earlier decision of Gannett Co. v.
DePasquale, by contrast, the Court upheld a temporary denial of
public access to the transcript of a hearing to suppress evidence,
emphasizing that the Sixth Amendment guarantee to a public trial
is primarily a personal right of the defendant, not an embodiment
of a common law right to open proceedings in favor of the public,43
and further finding that any First Amendment right to access that
might have existed was outweighed by the circumstances of the case.44
Other cases disfavoring open access have involved press coverage
that was found to be so inflammatory or disruptive as to under-
mine the basic integrity, orderliness, and reliability of the trial pro-

    41 Presley v. Georgia, 558 U.S. ___, No. 09–5270, slip op. (2010) (per curiam).
    42  Press-Enterprise Co. v. Superior Court, 478 U.S. 1, 14 (1986) (Press-
Enterprise II).
    43 See Estes v. Texas, 381 U.S. 532, 538–39 (1965).
    44 443 U.S. 368 (1979). Cf. Nixon v. Warner Communications, 435 U.S. 589, 610

(1978).
