     The Court subsequently concluded that “little more than the ap-
plication of our holding in Crawford v. Washington” was needed to
find that “affidavits reporting the results of forensic analysis which
showed that material seized by the police and connected to the de-
fendant was cocaine” were subject to the right of confrontation. The
Court found that the analysts were required to testify in person
even though state law declared their affidavits “prima facie evi-
dence of the composition, quality, and the net weight of the nar-
cotic . . . analyzed.” 229 Further, where such testimony is required,
the prosecution may not use a “surrogate” witness who, although
familiar with the mechanics of forensic testing, had not signed the
certification or personally performed or observed the performance
of the test. Such a surrogate could not speak to concerns about the
integrity of testing procedures or to questions about the perfor-
mance of the certifying analyst.230 A year after this apparently straight-
forward holding in Bullcoming v. New Mexico, however, the Court’s
guidance on trial consideration of forensic reports was clouded by
Williams v. Illinois.231 In Williams, an expert witness (not a surro-
gate witness from the testing lab) testified that a DNA profile she
had prepared from the defendant’s blood matched a DNA profile re-
ported by an outside lab from a swab of a rape victim. A four-
Justice plurality held that the expert incorporated the lab’s report
in her testimony in a way not intended to prove that the outside
lab had in fact tested a swab from a particular rape victim and come
up with the defendant’s DNA profile, but rather in a way solely in-
tended to establish a basis for the expert’s opinion that two DNA
profiles matched. Four dissenters vigorously asserted the contrary,
finding that the outside lab’s report served the purpose of incrimi-
nating the defendant directly because it identified the rape victim
as the source of the material the lab profiled. The expert’s testi-
mony effectively was used to connect the defendant with a named
individual and not just his DNA profile with a DNA sample ob-
tained from some unnamed source. Accordingly, the dissent as-
serted the Confrontation Clause required that the defendant have
an opportunity to examine the lab technicians responsible for the
report. The ninth Justice in the case, Justice Thomas, agreed the
report was directly incriminating because the expert expressly used
it to link her profile of the defendant’s DNA to the rape victim. Nev-
ertheless, Justice Thomas concurred in judgment of the plurality,

    229 Melendez-Diaz v. Massachusetts, 557 U.S. ___, No. 07–591, slip op. at 23, 1,

2 (2009).
    230 Bullcoming v. New Mexico, 564 U.S. ___, No. 09–10876, slip op. at 12 (2011).
    231 567 U.S. ___, No. 10–8505, slip op. (2012).
