from the existent English practice to appointment of counsel in a
few states where needed counsel could not be retained.261 Contem-
poraneously with the proposal and ratification of the Sixth Amend-
ment, Congress enacted two statutory provisions that seemed to in-
dicate an understanding that the Sixth Amendment guarantee was
limited to retained counsel by a defendant wishing and able to af-
ford assistance.262
     By federal statute, an individual tried for a capital crime in a
federal court was entitled to appointed counsel, and, by judicial prac-
tice, the federal courts came to appoint counsel frequently for indigents
charged with noncapital crimes, although it may be assumed that
the practice fell short at times of what is now constitutionally re-
quired.263 State constitutions and statutes gradually ensured a de-
fendant the right to appear in state trials with retained counsel,
but the states were far less uniform on the existence and scope of
a right to appointed counsel. It was in the context of a right to ap-
pointed counsel that the Supreme Court began to develop its mod-
ern jurisprudence on a constitutional right to counsel generally, first
applying procedural due process analysis under the Fourteenth Amend-
ment to state trials, also finding a Sixth Amendment based right to
appointed counsel in federal prosecutions, and eventually applying
this Sixth Amendment based right to the states.
     Development of Right.—The development began in Powell v.
Alabama,264 in which the Court set aside the convictions of eight
black youths sentenced to death in a hastily carried-out trial with-
out benefit of counsel. Due process, Justice Sutherland said for the
Court, always requires the observance of certain fundamental per-
sonal rights associated with a hearing, and “the right to the aid of
counsel is of this fundamental character.” This observation was about
the right to retain counsel of one’s choice and at one’s expense, and
included an eloquent statement of the necessity of counsel. “The right
to be heard would be, in many cases, of little avail if it did not com-
prehend the right to be heard by counsel. Even the intelligent and
educated layman has small and sometimes no skill in the science
of law. If charged with crimes, he is incapable, generally, of deter-
    261  W. BEANEY, THE RIGHT TO COUNSEL IN AMERICAN COURTS 8–26 (1955).
    262  Section 35 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, ch. 20, 1 Stat. 73, provided that par-
ties in federal courts could manage and plead their own causes personally or by the
assistance of counsel as provided by the rules of court. The Act of April 30, 1790, ch.
9, 1 Stat. 118, provided: “Every person who is indicted of treason or other capital
crime, shall be allowed to make his full defense by counsel learned in the law; and
the court before which he is tried, or some judge thereof, shall immediately, upon
his request, assign to him such counsel not exceeding two, as he may desire, and
they shall have free access to him at all reasonable hours.”
     263 W. BEANEY, THE RIGHT TO COUNSEL IN AMERICAN COURTS 29–30 (1955).
     264 287 U.S. 45 (1932).
