requirement onto the Sentencing Reform Act, under which the Guide-
lines were adopted, the Court instead invalidated two of its provi-
sions, one making application of the Guidelines mandatory, and, con-
comitantly, one requiring de novo review for appeals of departures
from the mandatory Guidelines, and held that the remainder of the
Act could remain intact.106 As the Court explained, this remedy “makes
the Guidelines effectively advisory. It requires a sentencing court
to consider Guidelines ranges, but it permits the court to tailor the
sentence in light of other statutory concerns as well.” 107
     In Cunningham v. California,108 the Court addressed whether
California’s determinate state sentencing law, yet another style of
legislative effort intended to regularize criminal sentencing, sur-
vived the Booker-Blakely line of cases. That law, and its implement-
ing rules, required that the trial judge in the case sentence the de-
fendant to 12 years in prison unless the judge found one or more
additional “circumstances in aggravation,” in which case the sen-
tence would be 16 years. Aggravating circumstances could include
specific factual findings made by a judge under a “preponderance
of the evidence” standard in apparent violation of Booker and Blakely.
The court was also free to consider “additional criteria reasonably
related to the decision being made.” 109 The state argued that this
latter provision conformed the California sentencing scheme to Booker,
which contemplated that judges retain discretion to select a spe-
cific sentence within a statutory range, subject to appellate review
to determine “reasonableness.” The Court rejected this argument,
finding that the scheme impermissibly allocated sole authority to
judges to find the facts that permitted imposition of a higher alter-
native sentence.110
     The Court, however, has refused to apply Apprendi’s principles
to judicial factfinding that supports the imposition of mandatory mini-
find a Sixth Amendment violation; the other, authored by Justice Breyer, and joined
by Chief Justice Rehnquist and Justices O’Connor, Kennedy, and Ginsburg (the Blakely
dissenters joined by Justice Ginsburg), set forth the remedy.
     106 543 U.S. at 259. Consistent with the role it envisioned for a sentencing judge,

the Court substituted a “reasonableness” standard for the statutory de novo appel-
late review standard that it struck down. 543 U.S. at 262.
     107 543 U.S. at 245–246 (statutory citations omitted). Although not addressed in

the Booker ruling, a provision of the Sentencing Guidelines that limits district courts
from departing from the Guidelines during resentencing (the previous sentence hav-
ing been vacated) on grounds other than those considered during for the first sen-
tencing, was subsequently struck down as conflicting with the now-advisory nature
of the Guidelines. Pepper v. United States, 562 U.S. ___, No. 09–6822, slip op. (2011).
     108 549 U.S. 270 (2007).
     109 549 U.S. at 278–79, quoting California Rule 4.408(a).
     110 549 U.S. at 279–80. “The reasonableness requirement that Booker antici-

pated for the federal system operates within the Sixth Amendment constraints de-
lineated in our precedent, not as a substitute for those constraints.” 549 U.S. at 292–
93.
