ment. This Court’s Sixth Amendment cases do not automatically for-
bid a sentencing court to take account of factual matters not
determined by a jury and to increase the sentence in consequence.
Nor do they prohibit the sentencing judge from taking account of
the Sentencing Commission’s factual findings or recommended sen-
tences. . . . The Sixth Amendment question, the Court has said, is
whether the law forbids a judge to increase a defendant’s sentence
unless the judge finds facts that the jury did not find (and the of-
fender did not concede). . . . A nonbinding appellate presumption
that a Guidelines sentence is reasonable does not require the judge
to impose that sentence. Still less does it forbid the sentencing judge
from imposing a sentence higher than the Guidelines provide for
the jury-determined facts standing alone.” 116
    In United States v. Gall,117 the Court held that, “while the ex-
tent of the difference between a particular sentence and the recom-
mended Guidelines range is surely relevant, courts of appeals must
review all sentences—whether inside, just outside, or significantly
outside the Guidelines range—under a deferential abuse-of-
discretion standard.” 118 The Court rejected “an appellate rule that
requires ‘extraordinary’ circumstances to justify a sentence outside
the Guidelines range,” and also rejected “the use of a rigid math-
ematical formula that uses the percentage of a departure as the
standard for determining the strength of the justifications required
for a specific sentence.” These approaches, the Court said, “come
too close to creating an impermissible presumption of unreasonable-
ness for sentences outside the Guidelines range.” 119

      116 551 U.S. at 352, 353 (emphasis in original). The Court added: “The fact that

we permit courts of appeals to adopt a presumption of reasonableness does not mean
that courts may adopt a presumption of unreasonableness. . . . [A]ppellate courts
may not presume that every variance from the advisory Guidelines is unreason-
able. . . . Several courts of appeals have also rejected a presumption of unreason-
ableness. . . . However, a number of circuits adhere to the proposition that the strength
of the justification needed to sustain an outside-Guidelines sentence varies in pro-
portion to the degree of the variance.” Id. at 354–55.
      117 128 S. Ct. 586 (2007) (upholding a sentence of probation where the Guide-

lines had recommended imprisonment).
      118 128 S. Ct. at 591. “As explained in Rita and Gall, district courts must treat

the Guidelines as the ‘starting point and the initial benchmark.’ ” Kimbrough v. United
States, 128 S. Ct. 558 (2007) (upholding lower-than-Guidelines sentence for traf-
ficker in crack cocaine, where sentence “is based on a disagreement with the sentenc-
ing disparity for crack and powder cocaine offenses”). A district court judge may de-
termine “that, in the particular case, a within-Guidelines sentence is ‘greater than
necessary’ to serve the objectives of sentencing.” Kimbrough, 128 S. Ct. at 564.
      119 128 S. Ct. at 595. Justice Alito, dissenting, wrote, “we should not forget [that]

. . . Booker and its antecedents are based on the Sixth Amendment right to trial by
jury. . . . It is telling that the rules set out in the Court’s opinion in the present
case have nothing to do with juries or factfinding and, indeed, that not one of the
facts that bears on petitioner’s sentence is disputed. What is at issue, instead, is
