fixing of jury size at 12 was “a historical accident” that, although
firmly established when the Sixth Amendment was proposed and
ratified, was not required as an attribute of the jury system, either
as a matter of common-law background 63 or by any ascertainment
of the intent of the framers.64 Being bound neither by history nor
framers’ intent, the Court thought the “relevant inquiry . . . must
be the function that the particular feature performs and its rela-
tion to the purposes of the jury trial.” The size of the jury, the Court
continued, bore no discernable relationship to the purposes of jury
trial—the prevention of oppression and the reliability of factfind-
ing. Furthermore, there was little reason to believe that any great
advantage accrued to the defendant by having a jury composed of
12 rather than six, which was the number at issue in the case, or
that the larger number appreciably increased the variety of view-
points on the jury. A jury should be large enough to promote group
deliberation, free from outside attempts at intimidation, and to pro-
vide a fair possibility that a cross-section of the community will be
represented on it, but the Court did not speculate whether there
was a minimum permissible size and it recognized the propriety of
conditioning jury size on the seriousness of the offense.65
    When the unanimity rule was reconsidered, the division of the
Justices was such that different results were reached for state and
federal courts.66 Applying the same type of analysis as that used in
Williams, four Justices acknowledged that unanimity was a common-
law rule but observed for the reasons reviewed in Williams that it
      63   The development of 12 as the jury size is traced in Williams, 399 U.S. at 86–
92.
     64 399 U.S. at 92–99. Although the historical materials were scanty, the Court

thought it more likely than not that the framers of the Bill of Rights did not intend
to incorporate into the word “jury” all its common-law attributes. This conclusion
was drawn from the extended dispute between House and Senate over inclusion of
a “vicinage” requirement in the clause, which was a common law attribute, and the
elimination of language attaching to jury trials their “accustomed requisites.” But
see id. at 123 n.9 (Justice Harlan).
     65 399 U.S. at 99–103. In Ballew v. Georgia, 435 U.S. 223 (1978), the Court unani-

mously, but with varying expressions of opinion, held that conviction by a unani-
mous five-person jury in a trial for a nonpetty offense deprived an accused of his
right to trial by jury. Although readily admitting that the line between six and five
members is not easy to justify, the Justices believed that reducing a jury to five
persons in nonpetty cases raised substantial doubts as to the fairness of the proceed-
ing and proper functioning of the jury to warrant drawing the line at six.
     66 Apodaca v. Oregon, 406 U.S. 404 (1972), involved a trial held after decision

in Duncan v. Louisiana, 391 U.S. 145 (1968), and thus concerned whether the Sixth
Amendment itself required jury unanimity, while Johnson v. Louisiana, 406 U.S. 356
(1972), involved a pre-Duncan trial and thus raised the question whether due pro-
cess required jury unanimity. Johnson held, five-to-four, that the due process require-
ment of proof of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt was not violated by a conviction on
a nine-to-three jury vote in a case in which punishment was necessarily at hard
labor.
