out having counsel present.” 378 But, to apply Michigan v. Jackson
only when the defendant invokes his right to counsel “would be un-
workable in more than half the States of the Union,” where “appoint-
ment of counsel is automatic upon a finding of indigency” or may
be made “sua sponte by the court.” 379 “On the other hand, eliminat-
ing the invocation requirement would render the rule easy to apply
but depart fundamentally from the Jackson rationale,” which was
“to prevent police from badgering defendants into changing their
minds about their rights” after they had invoked them.380 More-
over, the Court found, Michigan v. Jackson achieves little by way
of preventing unconstitutional conduct. Without Jackson, there would
be “few if any” instances in which “fruits of interrogations made
possible by badgering-induced involuntary waivers are ever errone-
ously admitted at trial. . . . The principal reason is that the Court
has already taken substantial other, overlapping measures toward
the same end. . . . Under the Miranda-Edwards-Minnick line of cases
(which is not in doubt), a defendant who does not want to speak to
the police without counsel present need only say as much when he
is first approached and given the Miranda warnings. At that point,
not only must the immediate contact end, but ‘badgering’ by later
requests is prohibited.” 381 Thus, the Court in Montejo overruled Michi-
gan v. Jackson.382
     The remedy for violation of the Sixth Amendment rule is exclu-
sion from evidence of statements so obtained.383 And, although the
basis for the Sixth Amendment exclusionary rule—to protect the right
to a fair trial—differs from that of the Fourth Amendment rule—to
deter illegal police conduct—exceptions to the Fourth Amendment’s
    378  556 U.S. ___, No. 07–1529, slip op. at 10.
    379  556 U.S. ___, No. 07–1529, slip op. at 13, 4.
     380 556 U.S. ___, No. 07–1529, slip op. at 13, 10.
     381 556 U.S. ___, No. 07–1529, slip op. at 15.
     382 Justice Stevens, joined by Justices Souter and Ginsburg, and by Justice Breyer

except for footnote 5, dissented. He wrote, “The majority’s analysis flagrantly misrep-
resents Jackson’s underlying rationale and the constitutional interests the decision
sought to protect. . . . [T]he Jackson opinion does not even mention the anti-
badgering considerations that provide the basis for the Court’s decision today. In-
stead, Jackson relied primarily on cases discussing the broad protections guaran-
teed by the Sixth Amendment right to counsel—not its Fifth Amendment counterpart.
Jackson emphasized that the purpose of the Sixth Amendment is to ‘protec[t] the
unaided layman at critical confrontations with his adversary,’ by giving him ‘the right
to rely on counsel as a medium between him[self] and the State.’ . . . Once Jackson
is placed in its proper Sixth Amendment context, the majority’s justifications for over-
ruling the decision crumble.” Slip op. at 5, 6 (internal quotation marks and citations
omitted). Justice Stevens added, “Even if Jackson had never been decided, it would
be clear that Montejo’s Sixth Amendment rights were violated. . . . Because police
questioned Montejo without notice to, and outside the presence of, his lawyer, the
interrogation violated Montejo’s right to counsel even under pre-Jackson precedent.”
Slip op. at 10–11.
     383 See Michigan v. Jackson, 475 U.S. 625 (1986).
