ment would stand for little if the often uninformed decision to re-
tain a particular lawyer could reduce or forfeit the defendant’s en-
titlement to constitutional protection.” 314 To an argument that a state
need only appoint for indigent defendants to satisfy Sixth Amend-
ment requirements, the Court responded that “the State’s conduct
of a criminal trial itself implicates the State in the defendant’s con-
viction”, and no state may proceed against a defendant whose coun-
sel, appointed or retained, cannot defend him fully and faith-
fully.315
     Fidelity has been at issue in cases of joint representation of co-
defendants. In Glasser v. United States, the Court found a trial judge
erred in appointing one defendant’s attorney to also represent a co-
defendant in a conspiracy case; the judge knew of potential con-
flicts of interest in the case, and the original defendant had earlier
expressed a desire for sole representation.316 Counsel for codefen-
dants in another case made a timely assertion to the trial judge
that continuing joint representation could pose a conflict of inter-
est, and the Court found that the trial judge erred in not examin-
ing the assertion of potential conflict closely and permitting or ap-
pointing separate counsel, absent a finding that the risk of conflict
was remote.317 Joint representation does not deny effective assis-
tance per se, however. Judges are not automatically required to ini-
tiate an inquiry into the propriety of multiple representation, be-
ing able to assume in the absence of undefined “special circumstances”
that no conflict exists. On the other hand, a defendant who objects
to joint representation must be given an opportunity to make the
case that potential conflicts exists. Absent an objection, a defen-
dant must later show the existence of an “actual conflict of interest
which adversely affected his lawyer’s performance.” Once it is estab-
lished that a conflict did actively affect the lawyer’s joint represen-
tation, however, a defendant need not additionally prove that the
lawyer’s representation was prejudicial to the outcome of the case.318

    314   Cuyler v. Sullivan, 446 U.S. 335, 344 (1980).
    315   Id.
      316 315 U.S. 60 (1942).
      317 Holloway v. Arkansas, 435 U.S. 475 (1978). Counsel had been appointed by

the court.
      318 Cuyler v. Sullivan, 446 U.S. 335, 348–50 (1980). Accord But see Wood v. Geor-

gia, 450 U.S. 261 (1981) (where counsel retained by defendants’ employer had con-
flict between their interests and employer’s, and all the facts were known to trial
judge, he should have inquired further); Wheat v. United States, 486 U.S. 153 (1988)
(district court correctly denied defendant’s waiver of right to conflict-free representa-
tion; separate representation order is justified by likelihood of attorney’s conflict of
interest). Where an alleged conflict is not premised on joint representation, but rather
on a prior representation of a different client, for example, a defendant may be re-
quired to show actual prejudice in addition to a potential conflict. Mickens v. Taylor,
