mum sentences.111 The Court has also refused to extend Apprendi
to a judge’s decision to impose sentences for discrete crimes consecu-
tively rather than concurrently.112 The Court explained that, when
a defendant has been convicted of multiple offenses, each involving
discrete sentencing prescriptions, the states apply various rules re-
garding whether a judge may impose the sentences consecutively
or concurrently.113 The Court held that “twin considerations—
historical practice and respect for state sovereignty—counsel against
extending Apprendi’s rule” to preclude judicial factfinding in this
situation as well.114
    In Rita v. United States, the Court upheld the application, by
federal courts of appeals, of the presumption “that a sentence im-
posed within a properly calculated United States Sentencing Guide-
lines range is a reasonable sentence.” 115 Even if the presumption
“increases the likelihood that the judge, not the jury, will find ‘sen-
tencing facts,’ ” the Court wrote, it “does not violate the Sixth Amend-
     111 Prior to its decision in Apprendi, the Court had held that factors determina-

tive of minimum sentences could be decided by a judge. McMillan v. Pennsylvania,
477 U.S. 79 (1986). Although the vitality of McMillan was put in doubt by Ap-
prendi, McMillan was subsequently reaffirmed in Harris v. United States, 536 U.S.
545, 568–69 (2002). Five Justices in Harris thought that factfinding required for im-
position of mandatory minimums fell within Apprendi’s reasoning, but one of the
five, Justice Breyer, concurred in the judgment on practical grounds despite his rec-
ognition that McMillan was not “easily” distinguishable “in terms of logic.” 536 U.S.
at 569. Justice Thomas’ dissenting opinion, id. at 572, joined by Justices Stevens,
Souter, and Ginsburg, elaborated on the logical inconsistency, and suggested that
the Court’s deference to Congress’s choice to treat mandatory minimums as sentenc-
ing factors made avoidance of Apprendi a matter of “clever statutory drafting.” Id.
at 579.
     112 Oregon v. Ice, 129 S. Ct. 711 (2009).
     113 Most states follow the common-law tradition of giving judges unfettered dis-

cretion over the matter, while some states presume that sentences will run consecu-
tively but allow judges to order concurrent sentences upon finding cause to do so.
“It is undisputed,” the Court noted, “that States may proceed on [either of these]
two tracks without transgressing the Sixth Amendment.” 129 S. Ct. at 714.
     114 129 S. Ct. at 717. The Court also noted other decisions judges make that are

likely to evade the strictures of Apprendi, including determining the length of super-
vised release, attendance at drug rehabilitation programs, terms of community ser-
vice, and imposition of fines and orders of restitution. Id. at 719. Justice Scalia, joined
by Chief Justice Roberts and Justices Souter and Thomas, dissented, finding the
majority’s applying Apprendi “only to the length of a sentence for an individual crime
and not to the total sentence for a defendant . . . a strange exception to the trea-
sured right of trial by jury.” Id. at 720 (Scalia, J., dissenting).
     115 551 U.S. 338, 341 (2007). The Court emphasized that it was upholding “an

appellate court presumption. Given our explanation in Booker that appellate ‘reason-
ableness’ review merely asks whether the trial court abused its discretion, the pre-
sumption applies only on appellate review. . . . [T]he sentencing court does not en-
joy the benefit of a legal presumption that the Guidelines sentence should apply.”
Id. at 351, quoted in part in Nelson v. United States, 129 S. Ct. 891 (2009) (per
curiam), where the Court added, “The Guidelines are not only not mandatory on
sentencing courts; they are also not to be presumed reasonable.” Id. at 892 (empha-
sis in original).
