523. NAACP v. Button, 371 U.S. 415 (1963).
           A Virginia law that expanded malpractice by attorneys to include
      acceptance of employment or compensation from any person or organi-
      zation not a party to a judicial proceeding and having no pecuniary
      right or liability in it, and that made it an offense for such person or
      organization to solicit business for an attorney violated freedom of ex-
      pression and association, as guaranteed by the Due Process Clause of
      the Fourteenth Amendment when enforced against a corporation, in-
      cluding its attorneys and litigants, whose major purpose is the elimi-
      nation of racial segregation through litigation that it solicits, insti-
      tutes, and finances.
             Justices concurring: Brennan, Warren, C.J., Goldberg, Douglas (separately), Black
             Justices dissenting: White (in part), Harlan, Clark, Stewart

524. Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U.S. 335 (1963).
          A Florida statute that did not accord indigent defendants court-
      appointed counsel in noncapital felony offenses deprived such defen-
      dants of due process of law.
             Justices concurring: Douglas (separately), Clark (separately), Harlan (sepa-
               rately)

525. Gray v. Sanders, 372 U.S. 368 (1963).
           A Georgia county unit system for nominating candidates in prima-
      ries for state-wide offices, including United States Senators, as set forth
      in statutory provisions, violated the principle of “one-person, one vote”
      as required by the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amend-
      ment.
             Justices concurring: Douglas, Stewart (separately), Clark (separately), Warren, C.J.,
               Brennan, White, Goldberg, Black
             Justice dissenting: Harlan

526. Lane v. Brown, 372 U.S. 477 (1963).
           The Indiana Public Defender Act, insofar as it empowered the Pub-
      lic Defender to refuse to perfect an appeal for an indigent defendant
      whenever the former believed such an appeal would be unsuccessful
      and that, independently of such intervention by the Defender, af-
      forded such defendant no alternative means of obtaining a transcript
      of a coram nobis hearing requisite to perfect an appeal from a trial
      court’s denial of a writ of error coram nobis, effected a discriminatory
      denial of a privilege available as of right to a defendant with the req-
      uisite funds and violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Four-
      teenth Amendment.
             Justices concurring: Harlan (separately), Clark (separately)
