             Justices concurring: Harlan (separately), Stewart (separately), Frankfurter
               (separately), Clark (separately)

512. Torcaso v. Watkins, 367 U.S. 488 (1961).
           A Maryland constitutional provision under which an appointed no-
      tary public who would not declare his belief in God was denied his
      commission imposed an invalid test for public office that violated free-
      dom of belief and religion as guaranteed by the First Amendment, ap-
      plicable through the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amend-
      ment.
             Justices concurring: Frankfurter (separately), Harlan (separately)

513. Marcus v. Search Warrant, 367 U.S. 717 (1961).
           A Missouri statutory procedure that enabled a city police officer,
      in an ex parte proceeding, to obtain from a trial judge search war-
      rants authorizing seizure of all “obscene” material possessed by whole-
      sale and retail distributors without granting the latter a hearing or
      even seeing any of the materials in question and without specifying
      any particular publications, sanctioned search and seizure tactics that
      violated due process.
             Justices concurring: Black (separately), Douglas (separately)

514. Tugwell v. Bush, 367 U.S. 907 (1961).
          A Louisiana statute that punished the giving to or acceptance by
      any parent of anything of value as an inducement to sending his child
      to a school operated in violation of Louisiana law was void for vague-
      ness and was designed to scuttle a desegregation program.

515. Legislature of Louisiana v. United States, 367 U.S. 908 (1961).
           In an effort to interfere with court-ordered public school desegre-
      gation, Louisiana enacted statutes that purported to remove the New
      Orleans school board and replace it with a new group appointed by
      the legislature, and that deprived the board of its attorney and substi-
      tuted the Louisiana Attorney General, and enacted a resolution “ad-
      dressing out of office” the school superintendent chosen by the board.
      These enactments violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Four-
      teenth Amendment.

516. Cramp v. Board of Pub. Instruction, 368 U.S. 278 (1961).
           A Florida statute that required state and local public employees
      to swear that they had never lent their “aid, support, advice, counsel,
      or influence to the Communist Party,” and that subjected them to dis-
      charge for refusal, was void for vagueness and violated due process.
             Justices concurring: Black (separately), Douglas (separately)
