531. Lombard v. Louisiana, 373 U.S. 267 (1963).
          When local community policy, as administered by municipal law
      enforcement officers, proscribed “sit-in demonstrations” against re-
      fusal of store proprietors to serve African Americans at lunch counters
      reserved for white patrons, invoking the Louisiana Criminal Mischief
      Statute to punish African Americans who engaged in such demonstra-
      tions violated the Equal Protection Clause.
              Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Douglas (separately), Black, Brennan, White,
                Stewart, Goldberg, Clark
              Justice dissenting: Harlan

532. Wright v. Georgia, 373 U.S. 284 (1963).
          Georgia’s unlawful assemblies act, which rendered persons open
      to conviction for a breach of the peace upon their refusal to disperse
      upon command of police officers, was void for vagueness and violated
      due process because it did not give adequate warning to Negroes that
      peaceably playing basketball in a municipal park would expose them
      to prosecution for violation of the statute.
              Justice concurring: Harlan (separately)

533. Abington School Dist. v. Schempp, 374 U.S. 203 (1963).
           A Pennsylvania law that required the reading, without comment,
      of verses from the Bible at the opening of each public school day vio-
      lated the prohibition against the enactment of any law respecting an
      establishment of religion as incorporated by the Due Process Clause
      of the Fourteenth Amendment.
              Justices concurring: Clark, Douglas (separately), Brennan (separately), Goldberg
                (separately), Harlan (concurs with latter), Warren, C.J., White, Black
              Justice dissenting: Stewart

534. Sherbert v. Verner, 374 U.S. 398 (1963).
           The South Carolina Unemployment Compensation Act, which with-
      held benefits and deemed ineligible for the receipt thereof a person
      who has failed without good cause to accept available work when of-
      fered to him, if construed as barring a Seventh-Day Adventist from
      relief because of religious scruples against working on Saturday, abridged
      the latter’s right to the free exercise of religion contrary to the Due
      Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
              Justices concurring: Brennan, Clark, Warren, C.J., Goldberg, Black, Douglas,
                Stewart (separately)
              Justices dissenting: Harlan, White

535. Polar Ice Cream & Creamery Co. v. Andrews, 375 U.S. 361 (1964).
          A Florida statute and regulations implementing it that required
      a milk distributor to purchase its total supply of fluid milk from
