527. Halliburton Oil Well Co. v. Reily, 373 U.S. 64 (1963).
          Louisiana use tax, as enforced, unconstitutionally discriminates
      against interstate commerce in that the isolated purchase of an
      item of used equipment in Louisiana was not subject to its sales
      tax, whereas an Oklahoma contractor was subjected to the Louisi-
      ana use tax on an item of used equipment employed in servicing
      wells in Louisiana that had been acquired in Oklahoma; and fur-
      ther that the Louisiana sales or use tax was computed on the cost
      of components purchased in Louisiana or purchased out of state for
      assembly and use in Louisiana whereas here the contractor paid a
      use tax on equipment assembled in Oklahoma that reflected not
      only the purchase price of the components but also the cost of labor
      and shop overhead incurred in assembling the components into a
      usable item of equipment.
              Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Douglas, Goldberg, Stewart, White, Harlan,
                Brennan (separately)
              Justices dissenting: Clark, Black

528. Willner v. Committee on Character, 373 U.S. 96 (1963).
          New York’s statutory procedure governing admission to practice
      law, insofar as it failed to provide, in cases of denial of admission,
      for a hearing on the grounds for rejection to be accorded the appli-
      cant, either before the Committee on Character Fitness established
      by the Appellate Division of its Supreme Court, or before the Appel-
      late Division itself, was defective and amounted to a denial of due
      process.
              Justices concurring: Douglas, Black, White, Warren, C.J., Goldberg, Brennan,
                Stewart (separately)
              Justices dissenting: Harlan, Clark

529. Peterson v. City of Greenville, 373 U.S. 244 (1963).
          When a city ordinance required separation of the races in restau-
      rants, a South Carolina trespass statute, when enforced against Afri-
      can Americans who refused to leave a lunch counter in a retail store,
      amounted to a denial of equal protection of the laws.
              Justice concurring: Harlan (separately)

530. Accord: Gober v. City of Birmingham, 373 U.S. 374 (1963), as to an Ala-
    bama law on trespass.
              Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Black, Douglas, Goldberg, White, Clark, Brennan,
                Stewart
              Justice dissenting: Harlan
