             Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, White, Burger, C.J.

718. Cahn v. Long Island Vietnam Moratorium Comm., 418 U.S. 906 (1974).
          An appellate court decision holding invalid on its face a New York
      statute restricting display of the American flag, and prohibiting super-
      imposition of symbols on a flag, is summarily affirmed.

719. Franchise Tax Board v. United Americans, 419 U.S. 890 (1974).
          A district court decision striking down under First Amendment a
      California statute providing state income-tax reductions for taxpayers
      sending their children to nonpublic schools is summarily affirmed.
             Justices concurring: Brennan, Douglas, Stewart, Marshall, Blackmun, Powell
             Justices dissenting: White, Rehnquist, Burger, C.J.

720. Taylor v. Louisiana, 419 U.S. 522 (1975).
          Constitutional and statutory provisions that a woman should not
      be selected for jury service unless she had previously filed a written
      declaration of her desire to be subject to jury service violates the Sixth
      Amendment right of defendants to be tried before juries composed of
      a representative cross section of the community.
             Justices concurring: White, Douglas, Brennan, Stewart, Marshall, Blackmun,
               Powell
             Justice concurring specially: Burger, C.J.
             Justice dissenting: Rehnquist

721. North Georgia Finishing v. Di-Chem, 419 U.S. 601 (1975).
          Georgia statutes permitting a writ of garnishment to be issued in
      pending suits on the conclusory affidavit of plaintiff, prescribing filing
      of a bond as the only method of dissolving the writ, which deprives
      defendant of the use of the property pending the litigation, and mak-
      ing no provision for an early hearing, violates Fourteenth Amend-
      ment’s Due Process Clause.
             Justices concurring: White, Douglas, Brennan, Stewart, Marshall
             Justice concurring specially: Powell
             Justices dissenting: Blackmun, Rehnquist, Burger, C.J.

722. Goss v. Lopez, 419 U.S. 565 (1975).
           An Ohio statute authorizing suspension without a hearing of pub-
      lic school students for up to 10 days for misconduct denies students
      procedural due process in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
             Justices concurring: White, Douglas, Brennan, Stewart, Marshall
             Justices dissenting: Powell, Blackmun, Rehnquist, Burger, C.J.
