757. Wolman v. Walter, 433 U.S. 229 (1977) (subsequently overruled).
           Ohio’s loan of instructional material and equipment to nonpublic
      religious schools and transportation and services for field trips for
      nonpublic school pupils violates the First Amendment religion clauses.
              Justices concurring: Blackmun, Brennan, Stewart, Marshall, Stevens
              Justices dissenting: Burger, C.J., White, Rehnquist, Powell (as to field trips
                only)

758. Shaffer v. Heitner, 433 U.S. 186 (1977).
           A Delaware statute authorizing a court of the state to take juris-
      diction of a lawsuit by sequestering property of a defendant that hap-
      pens to be located in state violates the Due Process Clause because it
      permits state courts to exercise jurisdiction in the absence of suffi-
      cient contacts among defendant, litigation, and state.

759. Jernigan v. Lendall, 433 U.S. 901 (1977).
           A district court decision invalidating an Arkansas law that re-
      quires independent candidates for office to file for office no later than
      first Tuesday in April is summarily affirmed.

760. Coker v. Georgia, 433 U.S. 584 (1977).
           A Georgia statute authorizing the death penalty as punishment
      for rape violates the Eighth Amendment.
              Justices concurring: White, Stewart, Blackmun, Stevens
              Justices concurring specially: Brennan, Marshall, Powell
              Justices dissenting: Burger, C.J., Rehnquist

761. New York v. Cathedral Academy, 434 U.S. 125 (1977).
           New York’s authorization for reimbursement to nonpublic schools
      for performance of certain state-mandated services for the remainder
      of school year to replace a reimbursement program declared unconsti-
      tutional also violates First Amendment religion clause.
              Justices concurring: Stewart, Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, Powell, Stevens
              Justices dissenting: White, Rehnquist, Burger, C.J.

762. Zablocki v. Redhail, 434 U.S. 374 (1978).
           A Wisconsin statute that requires court permission to marry for
      any resident having minor children in his custody and who is under a
      court order to support and that conditions permission on a showing
      that the support obligation has been met and that the children are
      not and are not likely to become public charges, violates Equal Protec-
      tion Clause.
              Justices concurring: Marshall, Brennan, White, Blackmun, Burger, C.J.
              Justices concurring specially: Stewart, Powell, Stevens
