723. Cox Broadcasting Corp. v. Cohn, 420 U.S. 469 (1975).
           A Georgia statute making it a misdemeanor to publish or broad-
      cast the name of a rape victim may not be applied to such publishing
      or broadcasting when the name is part of a public record; consistent
      with the First Amendment, publication of such public record informa-
      tion is absolutely privileged.

724. Austin v. New Hampshire, 420 U.S. 656 (1975).
          A New Hampshire commuters income tax imposed on nonresi-
      dents violates the Privileges and Immunities Clause, Art. IV. § 2, cl. 1,
      because the state imposed no income tax on its residents’ domestic in-
      come and exempted from tax income earned by its residents outside
      the state, which meant that the tax fell exclusively on nonresidents
      and was not offset even approximately by other taxes imposed upon
      residents alone.
             Justices concurring: Marshall, Brennan, Stewart, White, Powell, Rehnquist,
               Burger, C.J.
             Justice dissenting: Blackmun

725. Stanton v. Stanton, 421 U.S. 7 (1975).
          Utah’s age of majority statute applied in the context of child sup-
      port requirements obligating parental support of a son to age 21 but a
      daughter only to age 18 is an invalid gender classification under the
      Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

726. Hill v. Stone, 421 U.S. 289 (1975).
           Texas constitution and statutes and city charter limiting the right
      to vote in city bond issue elections to persons who have listed prop-
      erty for taxation in the election district in the year of the election vio-
      lates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
             Justices concurring: Marshall, Brennan, White, Blackmun, Powell
             Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, Stewart, Burger, C.J.

727. Meek v. Pittenger, 421 U.S. 349 (1975) (subsequently overruled).
           Pennsylvania laws authorizing direct provision to nonpublic school
      children of “auxiliary services”, i.e., counseling, testing, speech and hear-
      ing therapy, etc., and loans to the nonpublic schools for instructional
      material and equipment, constitute unlawful assistance to religion in
      violation of the First Amendment.
             Justices concurring: Stewart, Douglas, Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, Powell
             Justices dissenting: Burger, C.J., Rehnquist
