      maintenance organizations but prohibiting such grants to other non-
      profit organizations if they perform abortions violates equal protection
      clause is summarily affirmed.

792. Stone v. Graham, 449 U.S. 39 (1980).
            A Kentucky statute requiring a copy of Ten Commandments, pur-
      chased with private contributions, to be posted on the wall of each pub-
      lic classroom in the state violates the Establishment Clause of the First
      Amendment.
             Justices concurring: Brennan, White, Marshall, Powell, Stevens
             Justices dissenting: Burger, C.J., Blackmun, Stewart, Rehnquist

793. Webb’s Fabulous Pharmacies v. Beckwith, 449 U.S. 155 (1980).
          Florida’s statutory authorization for county to retain as its own
      interest accruing on interpleader fund deposited in registry of county
      court was a taking violating the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments.

794. Weaver v. Graham, 450 U.S. 24 (1981).
           A Florida statute repealing an earlier law and reducing the amount
      of “gain time” for good conduct and obedience to prison rules deducted
      from a convicted prisoner’s sentence is an invalid ex post facto law as
      applied to one whose crime was committed prior to the statute’s enact-
      ment.

795. Jefferson County v. United States, 450 U.S. 901 (1981).
           A court of appeals decision holding invalid a Colorado statute that
      imposed use tax on government-owned, contractor operated facility as
      constituting ad valorem general property tax on Federal Government
      property and thus contravening the Supremacy Clause is summarily
      affirmed.

796. Democratic Party v. Wisconsin,450 U.S. 107 (1981).
          A Wisconsin law mandating national convention delegates chosen
      at party’s state convention to vote at the national convention for the
      candidate prevailing in the state’s preference primary, in which voters
      may participate without regard to party affiliation, violates the First
      Amendment right of association of the national party, whose rules pre-
      clude seating of delegates who were not selected in accordance with
      national party rules, including the limiting of the selection process to
      those voters affiliated with the party.
             Justices concurring: Stewart, Brennan, White, Marshall, Stevens, Burger, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Powell, Blackmun, Rehnquist
