770. Lockett v. Ohio, 438 U.S. 586 (1978).
           An Ohio statute authorizing imposition of death penalty upon con-
      viction of first-degree murder unconstitutionally restricted consider-
      ation of mitigating factors by the sentencing party.
              Justices concurring: Burger, C.J., Stewart, Powell, Stevens
              Justices concurring specially: White, Marshall, Blackmun
              Justices dissenting: Rehnquist

771. Duren v. Missouri, 439 U.S. 357 (1979).
          A Missouri statute, implementing a constitutional provision, which
      provides for the excusal of any women requesting exemption from jury
      service, operates to violate the fair cross section requirement of Sixth
      and Fourteenth Amendments because of the under representation of
      women jurors that results.
              Justices concurring: White, Brennan, Stewart, Marshall, Blackmun, Powell,
                Stevens, Burger, C.J.
              Justice dissenting: Rehnquist

772. Colautti v. Franklin, 439 U.S. 379 (1979).
          Provisions of a Pennsylvania abortion law that require the physi-
      cian to make a determination that the fetus is not viable and if it is
      viable to exercise the same care to preserve the fetus’ life and health
      that would be required in the case of a fetus intended to be born alive
      are void for vagueness under the Due Process Clause of the Four-
      teenth Amendment.
              Justices concurring: Blackmun, Brennan, Stewart, Marshall, Powell, Stevens
              Justices dissenting: White, Rehnquist, Burger, C.J.

773. Illinois State Bd. of Elections v. Socialist Workers Party, 440 U.S. 173
    (1979).
            An Illinois law requiring new political parties and independent can-
       didates to obtain signatures of 5% of the number of persons who voted
       at the previous election for such office in order to get on the ballot in po-
       litical subdivisions of the state, insofar as it applies to mandate the ob-
       taining of a greater number and proportion of signatures than is re-
       quired to get on the ballot for statewide office, lacks a rational basis and
       violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
              Justices concurring: Marshall, Brennan, Stewart, White, Powell
              Justices concurring specially: Blackmun, Stevens, Rehnquist, Burger, C.J.

774. Orr v. Orr, 440 U.S. 268 (1979).
           An Alabama statute that imposes alimony obligations on hus-
      bands but not on wives violates the Equal Protection Clause of the
      Fourteenth Amendment.
