      penditures is invalid, under the First Amendment, as applied to a mi-
      nor political party whose members and supporters may be subjected
      to harassment or reprisals.
              Justices concurring: Marshall, Brennan, White, Powell, Burger, C.J.
              Justice concurring specially: Blackmun
              Justices concurring in part and dissenting in part: O’Connor, Rehnquist, Ste-
                vens

821. Larkin v. Grendel’s Den, 459 U.S. 116 (1982).
           A Massachusetts statute permitting any church to block issuance
      of a liquor license to any establishment to be located within 500 feet
      of the church violates the Establishment Clause by delegating govern-
      mental decisionmaking to a church.
              Justices concurring: Burger, C.J., Brennan, White, Marshall, Blackmun, Powell,
                Stevens
              Justice dissenting: Rehnquist

822. King v. Sanchez, 459 U.S. 801 (1982).
           Federal district court’s decision invalidating New Mexico legisla-
      tive reapportionment as violating the one person, one vote require-
      ment of the Equal Protection Clause because the “votes cast” formula
      resulted in substantial population variances among districts, is sum-
      marily affirmed.

823. Minneapolis Star & Tribune Co. v. Minnesota Comm’r of Revenue, 460
    U.S. 575 (1983).
          Minnesota’s ink and paper use tax violates the First Amendment
      by providing “differential treatment” for the press.
              Justices concurring: O’Connor, Brennan, Marshall, Powell, Stevens, Burger, C.J.
              Justices concurring specially: White, Blackmun
              Justice dissenting: Rehnquist

824. Anderson v. Celebrezze, 460 U.S. 780 (1983).
           An Ohio statute requiring independent candidates for President and
      Vice-President to file nominating petitions by March 20 in order to qualify
      for the November ballot is unconstitutional as substantially burdening
      the associational rights of the candidates and their supporters.
              Justices concurring: Stevens, Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, Burger, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, White, Powell, O’Connor

825. Kolender v. Lawson, 461 U.S. 352 (1983).
          A California statute requiring that a person detained in a valid
      Terry stop provide “credible and reliable” identification is unconstitu-
      tionally vague, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment’s Due Pro-
      cess Clause.
