              Justice dissenting: Rehnquist

781. Beggans v. Public Funds for Public Schools, 442 U.S. 907 (1979).
          A federal court decision invalidating a New Jersey statute that
      allowed taxpayers a personal deduction from gross income for each of
      their dependent children attending nonpublic elementary or second-
      ary schools as a violation of the First Amendment’s religion clause is
      summarily affirmed.

782. Smith v. Daily Mail Pub. Co., 443 U.S. 97 (1979).
           A West Virginia statute that makes it a crime for a newspaper to
      publish, without the written approval of the juvenile court, the name
      of any youth charged as a juvenile offender violates the First and Four-
      teenth Amendments.

783. Bellotti v. Baird, 443 U.S. 622 (1979).
           A Massachusetts law requiring parental consent for an abortion
      for a woman under age 18 and providing for a court order permitting
      abortion for good cause if parental consent is refused violates the Due
      Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
              Justices concurring: Powell, Stewart, Rehnquist, Burger, C.J.
              Justices concurring specially: Stevens, Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun
              Justice dissenting: White

784. Vance v. Universal Amusement Co., 445 U.S. 308 (1980).
          A Texas public nuisance statute authorizing state judges, on the
      basis of a showing that a theater exhibited obscene films in the past,
      to enjoin its future exhibition of films not yet found to be obscene is
      an invalid prior restraint in violation of the First and Fourteenth Amend-
      ments.
              Justices concurring: Brennan, Stewart, Marshall, Blackmun, Stevens
              Justices dissenting (on other grounds): Powell, Burger, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: White, Rehnquist

785. Vitek v. Jones, 445 U.S. 480 (1980).
           A Nebraska statute that authorizes authorities to summarily trans-
      fer a prison inmate from jail to another institution if a physician finds
      that he suffers from a mental disease or defect and cannot be given
      proper treatment in jail violates the liberty guaranteed by the Due Pro-
      cess Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment unless the transfer is ac-
      companied by adequate procedural protections.
              Justices concurring: White, Brennan, Marshall, Powell, Stevens
              Justices dissenting (on other grounds): Stewart, Blackmun, Rehnquist, Burger, C.J.
