815. Edgar v. MITE Corp., 457 U.S. 624 (1982).
           Illinois take-over statute, which extensively regulates tender of-
      ferors and imposes registration and reporting requirements, because
      it directly regulates and prevents interstate tender offers and because
      the burdens on interstate commerce are excessive compared with local
      interests served, violates the Commerce Clause.
             Justices concurring: White, Blackmun, Powell, Stevens, O’Connor, Burger, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Marshall, Brennan, Rehnquist (all on mootness grounds)

816. Loretto v. Teleprompter Manhattan CATV Corp., 458 U.S. 419 (1982).
          A New York statute requiring landlords to permit installation of
      cable television wiring on their property and limiting fee charged to
      that determined to be reasonable by a commission (which set a one-
      time $1 fee) constituted a taking of property in violation of the Fifth
      and Fourteenth Amendments.

817. Washington v. Seattle School Dist., 458 U.S. 457 (1982).
          A Washington statute, enacted by initiative vote of the electorate,
      barring school boards from busing students for racially integrative pur-
      poses, denies equal protection of the laws.
             Justices concurring: Blackmun, Brennan, Marshall, White, Stevens
             Justices dissenting: Powell, Rehnquist, O’Connor, Burger, C.J.

818. Enmund v. Florida, 458 U.S. 782 (1982).
           Florida’s felony-murder statute, authorizing the death penalty solely
      for participation in a robbery in which another robber kills someone,
      violates the Eighth Amendment.
             Justices concurring: White, Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, Stevens
             Justices dissenting: O’Connor, Powell, Rehnquist, Burger, C.J.

819. Sporhase v. Nebraska ex rel. Douglas, 458 U.S. 941 (1982).
           A Nebraska state statute requiring a permit before anyone with-
      draws ground water from any well located in the state and transports
      it across state line and providing for denial of permit unless the state
      to which the water will be transported grants reciprocal rights to with-
      draw and transport water into Nebraska violates the Commerce Clause.
             Justices concurring: Stevens, Brennan, White, Marshall, Blackmun, Powell,
               Burger, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, O’Connor

820. Brown v. Socialist Workers ’74 Campaign Comm., 459 U.S. 87 (1982).
          An Ohio statute requiring candidates to disclose the names and
      addresses of campaign contributors and the recipients of campaign ex-
