810. Larson v. Valente, 456 U.S. 228 (1982).
           A Minnesota charitable solicitations law exempting from registra-
      tion and reporting only those religious organizations that receive more
      than half of their total contributions from members or affiliated orga-
      nizations is an impermissible denominational preference and violates
      the First Amendment’s Establishment Clause.
             Justices concurring: Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, Powell, Stevens
             Justices dissenting: White, Rehnquist (on merits); O’Connor, Burger, C.J. (on
               standing)

811. Greene v. Lindsey, 456 U.S. 444 (1982).
          A Kentucky statute authorizing service of process in forcible en-
      try and detainer action by posting summons in a conspicuous place if
      no one could be found on premises denies due process on showing that
      notices are often removed before defendants find them.
             Justices concurring: Brennan, White, Marshall, Blackmun, Powell, Stevens
             Justices dissenting: O’Connor, Rehnquist, Burger, C.J.

812. Zobel v. Williams, 457 U.S. 55 (1982).
           An Alaska law providing a dividend distribution to all state’s adult
      residents from earnings on oil and mineral development in state de-
      nies equal protection of the laws by determining amount of dividend
      for each person by the length of residency in state.
             Justices concurring: Burger, C.J., Brennan, White, Marshall, Blackmun, Powell,
               Stevens
             Justice concurring specially: O’Connor
             Justice dissenting: Rehnquist

813. Plyler v. Doe, 457 U.S. 202 (1982).
           A Texas statute withholding state funds from local school districts
      for the education of any children not legally admitted into United States
      and authorizing boards to deny enrollment to such children denies equal
      protection of the laws.
             Justices concurring: Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, Powell, Stevens
             Justices dissenting: Burger, C.J., White, Rehnquist, O’Connor

814. Globe Newspaper Co. v. Superior Court, 457 U.S. 596 (1982).
          A Massachusetts statute requiring, under all circumstances, exclu-
      sion of press and public during testimony of minor victim of a sex of-
      fense violates the First Amendment.
             Justices concurring: Brennan, White, Marshall, Blackmun, Powell
             Justice concurring specially: O’Connor
             Justices dissenting: Burger, C.J., Rehnquist, Stevens
