      der the First Amendment. The ban on endorsements violates free speech
      and associational rights; the organizational restrictions violate as-
      sociational rights.

878. Barnard v. Thorstenn, 489 U.S. 546 (1989).
           A Virgin Islands rule requiring one year’s residency prior to admis-
      sion to the bar violates the Privileges and Immunities Clause of Art.
      IV, § 2. Justifications for the rule do not constitute “substantial” rea-
      sons for discriminating against nonresidents; nor does the discrimina-
      tion bear a “substantial relation” to legitimate objectives.
              Justices concurring: Kennedy, Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, Stevens, Scalia
              Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J., White, O’Connor

879. Davis v. Michigan Dep’t of Treasury, 489 U.S. 803 (1989).
          Michigan’s income tax law, by providing exemption for retirement
      benefits of state employees but not for retirement benefits of federal
      employees, discriminates against federal employees in violation of 4
      U.S.C. § 111 and in violation of the constitutional doctrine of intergov-
      ernmental tax immunity.
              Justices concurring: Kennedy, Brennan, White, Marshall, Blackmun, O’Connor,
                Scalia, Rehnquist, C.J.
              Justice dissenting: Stevens

880. Quinn v. Millsap, 491 U.S. 95 (1989).
          A provision of the Missouri Constitution, interpreted by the Mis-
      souri Supreme Court as requiring property ownership as a qualifica-
      tion for appointment to a “board of freeholders” charged with making
      recommendations for reorganization of St. Louis city and county gov-
      ernments, violates the Equal Protection Clause.

881. The Healy v. Beer Institute, 491 U.S. 324 (1989).
           Connecticut’s beer price affirmation law, requiring out-of-state ship-
      pers to affirm that prices charged in-state wholesalers are no higher
      than prices charged contemporaneously in three bordering states, vio-
      lates the Commerce Clause.
              Justices concurring: Blackmun, Brennan, White, Marshall, Kennedy
              Justice concurring specially: Scalia
              Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J., Stevens, O’Connor

882. Texas v. Johnson, 491 U.S. 397 (1989).
           Texas’ flag desecration statute, prohibiting any physical mistreat-
      ment of the American flag that the actor knows would seriously offend
      other persons, is inconsistent with the First Amendment as applied to
      an individual who burned an American flag as part of a political pro-
      test.
