867. Meyer v. Grant, 486 U.S. 414 (1988).
           A Colorado law punishing as felony the payment of persons who
      circulate petitions for ballot initiative abridges the right to engage in
      political speech, and therefore violates the First and Fourteenth Amend-
      ments.

868. Clark v. Jeter, 486 U.S. 456 (1988).
           Pennsylvania’s 6-year statute of limitations for paternity actions
      violates the Equal Protection Clause as insufficiently justified under
      heightened scrutiny review.

869. Shapero v. Kentucky Bar Ass’n, 486 U.S. 466 (1988).
           The Kentucky Supreme Court’s rule containing categorical prohibi-
      tion of attorney direct mail advertising targeted at persons known to face
      particular legal problems violates First and Fourteenth Amendments.
              Justices concurring: Brennan, White, Marshall, Blackmun, Stevens, Kennedy
              Justices dissenting: O’Connor, Scalia, Rehnquist, C.J.

870. Bendix Autolite Corp. v. Midwesco Enterprises, Inc., 486 U.S. 888 (1988).
           An Ohio statute tolling its 4-year limitations period for breach of
      contract and fraud actions brought against out-of-state corporations that
      do not appoint an agent for service of process within the state—and
      thereby subject themselves to the general jurisdiction of Ohio courts—
      violates the Commerce Clause.
              Justices concurring:: Kennedy, Brennan, White, Marshall, Blackmun, Stevens,
                O’Connor
              Justice concurring specially: Scalia
              Justice dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J.

871. Supreme Court of Virginia v. Friedman, 487 U.S. 59 (1988).
           The Virginia Supreme Court rule imposing residency requirement
      for admission to the bar on motion, without taking the bar exam, by
      persons licensed to practice law in other jurisdictions, violates the Privi-
      leges and Immunities Clause of Article IV, § 2.
              Justices concurring: Kennedy, Brennan, White, Marshall, Blackmun, Stevens,
                O’Connor
              Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J., Scalia

872. Riley v. National Federation of the Blind, 487 U.S. 781 (1988).
           Three different aspects of North Carolina’s Charitable Solicita-
      tions Act unconstitutionally infringe freedom of speech. These aspects
      are: limitations on reasonable fees that professional fundraisers may
      charge; a requirement that professional fundraisers disclose to poten-
      tial donors the percentage of donated funds previously used for char-
      ity; and a requirement that professional fundraisers be licensed.
