             Justices concurring: Brennan, White, Marshall, Blackmun, Scalia, Kennedy
             Justice concurring in part and dissenting in part: Stevens
             Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J., O’Connor

873. Thompson v. Oklahoma, 487 U.S. 815 (1988).
           An Oklahoma statutory scheme, setting no minimum age for capi-
      tal punishment, and separately providing that juveniles may be tried
      as adults, violates Eighth Amendment by permitting capital punish-
      ment to be imposed for crimes committed before age 16.
             Justices concurring: Stevens, Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun
             Justice concurring specially: O’Connor
             Justices dissenting: Scalia, White, Rehnquist, C.J.

874. Coy v. Iowa, 487 U.S. 1012 (1988).
           An Iowa procedure, authorized by statute, placing a one-way screen
      between defendant and complaining child witnesses in sex abuse cases,
      thereby sparing witnesses from viewing defendant, violates the Con-
      frontation Clause right to face-to-face confrontation with one’s accus-
      ers.
             Justices concurring: Scalia, Brennan, White, Marshall, Stevens, O’Connor
             Justices dissenting: Blackmun, Rehnquist, C.J.

875. Allegheny Pittsburgh Coal Co. v. Webster County Comm’n, 488 U.S. 336
    (1989).
           A West Virginia county’s tax assessments denied equal protection
      to property owners whose assessments, based on recent purchase price,
      ranged from 8 to 35 times higher than comparable neighboring prop-
      erty for which the assessor failed over a 10-year period to readjust ap-
      praisals.

876. Texas Monthly, Inc. v. Bullock, 489 U.S. 1 (1989).
          A Texas sales tax exemption for publications published or distrib-
      uted by a religious faith and consisting of teachings of that faith or
      writings sacred to that faith violates the Establishment Clause of the
      First Amendment.
             Justices concurring: Brennan, Marshall, Stevens
             Justices concurring specially: White, Blackmun, O’Connor
             Justices dissenting: Scalia, Kennedy, Rehnquist, C.J.

877. Eu v. San Francisco County Democratic Central Comm., 489 U.S. 214
    (1989).
          Provisions of the California Elections Code forbidding the official
      governing bodies of political parties from endorsing or opposing candi-
      dates in primary elections, and imposing other requirements on the
      organization and composition of the governing bodies, are invalid un-
