      tional discrimination against interstate commerce because the entire
      assessment is then distributed to Massachusetts dairy farmers in spite
      of the fact that about two-thirds of the assessed milk is produced out
      of state. The discrimination imposed by the pricing order is not justi-
      fied by a valid factor unrelated to economic protectionism.
             Justices concurring: Stevens, O’Connor, Kennedy, Souter, Ginsburg
             Justices concurring specially: Scalia, Thomas
             Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J., Blackmun

903. Honda Motor Co. v. Oberg, 512 U.S. 415 (1994).
           A provision of the Oregon Constitution, prohibiting judicial re-
      view of the amount of punitive damages awarded by a jury unless the
      court can affirmatively say there is no evidence to support the verdict,
      is invalid under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amend-
      ment. Judicial review of the amount awarded was one of the few pro-
      cedural safeguards available at common law, yet Oregon has removed
      that safeguard without providing any substitute procedure, and with
      no indication that the danger of arbitrary awards has subsided.
             Justices concurring: Stevens, Blackmun, O’Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Souter,
               Thomas
             Justices dissenting: Ginsburg, Rehnquist, C.J.

904. Board of Educ. of Kiryas Joel Village v. Grumet, 512 U.S. 687 (1994).
          A New York State law creating a special school district for an in-
      corporated village composed exclusively of members of one small reli-
      gious sect violates the Establishment Clause.
             Justices concurring: Souter, Blackmun, Stevens, O’Connor, Ginsburg
             Justice concurring specially: Kennedy
             Justices dissenting: Scalia, Thomas, Rehnquist, C.J.

905. McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Comm’n, 514 U.S. 334 (1995).
          Ohio’s prohibition on the distribution of anonymous campaign lit-
      erature abridges the freedom of speech. The law, aimed at speech de-
      signed to influence voters in an election, is a limitation on political
      expression subject to exacting scrutiny. Neither of the interests as-
      serted by Ohio justifies the limitation.
             Justices concurring: Stevens, O’Connor, Kennedy, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer
             Justice concurring specially: Thomas
             Justices dissenting: Scalia, Rehnquist, C.J.

906. U.S. Term Limits, Inc. v. Thornton, 514 U.S. 779 (1995).
           An amendment to the Arkansas Constitution denying ballot ac-
      cess to congressional candidates who have already served three terms
      in the House of Representatives or two terms in the Senate is invalid
