             Justices concurring: Stevens, Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, O’Connor
             Justices dissenting: Kennedy, White, Scalia, Rehnquist, C.J.

888. Connecticut v. Doehr, 501 U.S. 1 (1991).
           A Connecticut statute authorizing a private party to obtain pre-
      judgment attachment of real estate without prior notice to the owner,
      and without a showing of extraordinary circumstances, violates the Due
      Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as applied in conjunc-
      tion with a civil action for assault and battery.

889. Simon & Schuster v. New York Crime Victims Bd., 502 U.S. 105 (1991).
          New York State’s “Son of Sam” law, under which a criminal’s in-
      come from works describing his crime is placed in escrow and made
      available to victims of the crime, violates the First Amendment. The
      law establishes a financial disincentive to create or publish works with
      a particular content, and is not narrowly tailored to serve the state’s
      compelling interests in ensuring that criminals do not profit from their
      crimes, and that crime victims are compensated.
             Justices concurring: O’Connor, White, Stevens, Scalia, Souter, Rehnquist, C.J.
             Justices concurring specially: Blackmun, Kennedy

890. Norman v. Reed, 502 U.S. 279 (1992).
          Two provisions of Illinois’ election law unconstitutionally infringe
      on the right of ballot access guaranteed under the First and Four-
      teenth Amendments. The first provision, as interpreted by the Illinois
      Supreme Court, prevented a “new political party” in Cook County from
      using the name of a party already “established” in the city of Chicago.
      The second required that new political parties qualify for the ballot by
      submitting petitions signed by 25,000 voters from each voting district
      to be represented in a multi-district political subdivision.
             Justices concurring: Souter, White, Blackmun, Stevens, O’Connor, Kennedy,
               Rehnquist, C.J.
             Justice dissenting: Scalia

891. Wyoming v. Oklahoma, 502 U.S. 437 (1992).
           An Oklahoma statute requiring that all coal-fired Oklahoma utili-
      ties burn a mixture containing at least 10% Oklahoma-mined coal dis-
      criminates against interstate commerce in violation of the implied “nega-
      tive” component of the Commerce Clause.
             Justices concurring: White, Blackmun, Stevens, O’Connor, Kennedy, Souter
             Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J., Scalia, Thomas
