919. Lunding v. New York Tax Appeals Tribunal, 522 U.S. 287 (1998).
           A New York law that effectively denies only nonresident taxpay-
      ers an income tax deduction for alimony paid violates the Privileges
      and Immunities Clause of Art. IV, § 2. New York did not adequately
      justify its failure to treat resident and nonresident taxpayers with sub-
      stantial equality.
             Justices concurring: O’Connor, Stevens, Scalia, Souter, Thomas, Breyer
             Justice dissenting: Ginsburg, Kennedy, Rehnquist, C.J.

920. Knowles v. Iowa, 525 U.S. 113 (1998).
           An Iowa statute authorizing law enforcement officers to conduct a
      full-blown search of an automobile when issuing a traffic citation vio-
      lates the Fourth Amendment. The rationales that justify a search inci-
      dent to arrest do not justify a similar search incident to a traffic cita-
      tion.

921. Buckley v. American Constitutional Law Foundation, 525 U.S. 182 (1999).
           Three conditions that Colorado placed on the petition process for
      ballot initiatives—that petition circulators be registered voters, that
      they wear identification badges, and that initiative sponsors report the
      names and addresses of circulators and the amounts paid to each—
      impermissibly restrict political speech in violation of the First and Four-
      teenth Amendments.
             Justices concurring: Ginsburg, Stevens, Scalia, Kennedy, Souter
             Justice concurring specially: Thomas
             Justice concurring in part and dissenting in part: O’Connor, Souter, Rehnquist, C.J.

922. South Central Bell Tel. Co. v. Alabama, 526 U.S. 160 (1999).
          Alabama’s franchise tax law discriminates against foreign corpora-
      tions in violation of the Commerce Clause. The law establishes a do-
      mestic corporation’s tax base as the par value of its capital stock, a
      value that the corporation may set at whatever level it chooses. The
      tax base of a foreign corporation, on the other hand, contains balance
      sheet items that the corporation cannot so manipulate.

923. Saenz v. Roe, 526 U.S. 489 (1999).
          A provision of California’s Welfare and Institutions Code limiting
      new residents, for the first year they live in California, to the level of
      welfare benefits that they would have received in the state of their
      prior residence abridges the right to travel in violation of the Four-
      teenth Amendment.
             Justices concurring: Stevens, O’Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer
             Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J., Thomas
