924. Rice v. Cayetano, 528 U.S. 495 (2000).
           A provision of the Hawaii Constitution restricting the right to vote
      for trustees of the Office of Hawaiian Affairs to persons who are descen-
      dants of people inhabiting the Hawaiian Islands in 1778 is a race-
      based voting qualification that violates the Fifteenth Amendment. An-
      cestry can be—and in this case is—a proxy for race.
             Justices concurring: Kennedy, Rehnquist, C.J., O’Connor, Scalia, Thomas
             Justices concurring specially: Breyer, Souter
             Justices dissenting: Stevens, Ginsburg

925. Carmell v. Texas,529 U.S. 513 (2000).
          A Texas law that eliminated a requirement that the testimony of
      a sexual assault victim age 14 or older must be corroborated by two
      other witnesses violates the Ex Post Facto Clause of Art. I, § 10 as
      applied to a crime committed while the earlier law was in effect. So
      applied, the law falls into the category of an ex post facto law that
      requires less evidence in order to convict. Under the old law, the peti-
      tioner could have been convicted only if the victim’s testimony had been
      corroborated by two witnesses, while under the amended law the peti-
      tioner was convicted on the victim’s testimony alone.
             Justices concurring: Stevens, Scalia, Souter, Thomas, Breyer
             Justices dissenting: Ginsburg, Rehnquist, C.J., O’Connor, Kennedy

926. Troxel v. Granville,530 U.S. 57 (2000).
           A Washington State law allowing “any person” to petition a court
      “at any time” to obtain visitation rights whenever visitation “may serve
      the best interests” of a child is unconstitutional as applied to an order
      requiring a parent to allow her child’s grandparents more extensive
      visitation than the parent wished. Because no deference was accorded
      to the parent’s wishes, the parent’s due process liberty interest in mak-
      ing decisions concerning her child’s care, custody, and control was vio-
      lated.
             Justices concurring: O’Connor, Rehnquist, C.J., Ginsburg, Breyer
             Justices concurring specially: Souter, Thomas
             Justices dissenting: Stevens, Scalia, Kennedy

927. Apprendi v. New Jersey, 530 U.S. 466 (2000).
          A New Jersey “hate crime” statute that allows a judge to extend a
      sentence upon finding by a preponderance of the evidence that the de-
      fendant, in committing a crime for which he has been found guilty,
      acted with a purpose to intimidate because of race, violates the Four-
      teenth Amendment’s Due Process Clause and the Sixth Amendment’s
      requirements of speedy and public trial by an impartial jury. Any fact
