              Justices concurring specially: Scalia, Thomas, O’Connor, Souter, Breyer,
                Rehnquist, C.J.

911. Romer v. Evans, 517 U.S. 620 (1996).
           Amendment 2 to the Colorado Constitution, which prohibits all leg-
      islative, executive, or judicial action at any level of state or local gov-
      ernment if that action is designed to protect homosexuals, violates the
      Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The amend-
      ment, adopted by statewide referendum in 1992, does not bear a ratio-
      nal relationship to a legitimate governmental purpose.
              Justices concurring: Kennedy, Stevens, O’Connor, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer
              Justices dissenting:: Scalia, Thomas, Rehnquist, C.J.

912. Shaw v. Hunt, 517 U.S. 899 (1996).
           North Carolina’s congressional districting law, containing the ra-
      cially gerrymandered 12th Congressional District as well as another
      majority-black district, violates the Equal Protection Clause because,
      under strict scrutiny applicable to racial classifications, creation of Dis-
      trict 12 was not narrowly tailored to serve a compelling state interest.
      Creation of District 12 was not necessary to comply with either sec-
      tion 2 or section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, and the lower court found
      that the redistricting plan was not actually aimed at ameliorating past
      discrimination.
              Justices concurring: Rehnquist, C.J., O’Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Thomas
              Justices dissenting: Stevens, Ginsburg, Souter, Breyer

913. Bush v. Vera, 517 U.S. 952 (1996).
           Three congressional districts created by Texas law constitute ra-
      cial gerrymanders that are unconstitutional under the Equal Protec-
      tion Clause. The district court correctly held that race predominated
      over legitimate districting considerations, including incumbency, and
      consequently strict scrutiny applies. None of the three districts is nar-
      rowly tailored to serve a compelling state interest.
              Justices concurring: O’Connor, Kennedy, Rehnquist, C.J.
              Justices concurring specially: O’Connor, Kennedy, Thomas, Scalia
              Justices dissenting: Stevens, Ginsburg, Breyer, Souter

914. United States v. Virginia, 518 U.S. 515 (1996).
           Virginia’s exclusion of women from the educational opportunities
      provided by Virginia Military Institute denies to women the equal pro-
      tection of the laws. A state must demonstrate “exceedingly persuasive
      justification” for gender discrimination, and Virginia has failed to do
      so in this case.
              Justices concurring: Ginsburg, Stevens, O’Connor, Kennedy, Souter, Breyer
