892. Foucha v. Louisiana, 504 U.S. 71 (1992).
           A Louisiana statute allowing an insanity acquittee no longer suf-
      fering from mental illness to be confined indefinitely in a mental insti-
      tution until he is able to demonstrate that he is not dangerous to him-
      self or to others violates due process.
             Justices concurring: White, Blackmun, Stevens, O’Connor, Souter
             Justices dissenting: Kennedy, Thomas, Scalia, Rehnquist, C.J.

893. Quill Corp. v. North Dakota, 504 U.S. 298 (1992).
           Application of the state’s use tax to mail order sales by an out-of-
      state company with neither outlets nor sales representatives in the state
      places an undue burden on interstate commerce in violation of the “nega-
      tive” or “dormant” Commerce Clause. A physical presence within the
      taxing state is necessary in order to meet the “substantial nexus” re-
      quirement of the Commerce Clause.

894. Chemical Waste Management, Inc. v. Hunt, 504 U.S. 334 (1992).
           Alabama’s fee for in-state disposal of hazardous wastes generated
      out-of-state is invalid as a direct discrimination against interstate com-
      merce. Alabama failed to establish that the discrimination against in-
      terstate commerce is justified by any factor other than economic pro-
      tectionism, and failed to show that its valid interests (e.g., protection
      of health, safety, and the environment) can not be served by less dis-
      criminatory alternatives. The fee is not supportable by analogy to quar-
      antine laws, since the state permits importation of hazardous wastes
      if the fee is paid.

895. Fort Gratiot Sanitary Landfill, Inc. v. Michigan Nat. Resources Dep’t,
    504 U.S. 353 (1992).
            Waste import restrictions of Michigan’s Solid Waste Management
      Act violate the Commerce Clause. The restrictions, which prohibit land-
      fills from accepting out-of-county waste unless explicitly authorized by
      the county’s solid waste management plan, directly discriminate against
      interstate commerce and are not justified as serving any valid health
      and safety purposes that can not be served adequately by nondiscrimi-
      natory alternatives.

896. Kraft Gen. Foods v. Iowa Dep’t of Revenue, 505 U.S. 71 (1992).
          An Iowa statute imposing a business tax on corporations facially
      discriminates against foreign commerce in violation of the Commerce
      Clause by allowing corporations to take a deduction for dividends re-
      ceived from domestic, but not foreign, subsidiaries.
