      as conflicting with the qualifications for office set forth in Article I of
      the U.S. Constitution, (specifying age, duration of U.S. citizenship, and
      state inhabitancy requirements). Article I sets the exclusive qualifica-
      tions for a United States Representative or Senator.
             Justices concurring: Stevens, Kennedy, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer
             Justices dissenting: Thomas, O’Connor, Scalia, Rehnquist, C.J.

907. Hurley v. Irish-American Gay Group, 515 U.S. 557 (1995).
           Application of Massachusetts’ public accommodations law to re-
      quire the private organizers of a St. Patrick’s Day parade to allow par-
      ticipation in the parade by a gay and lesbian group wishing to pro-
      claim its members’ gay and lesbian identity violates the First Amendment
      because it compels parade organizers to include in the parade a mes-
      sage they wish to exclude.

908. Miller v. Johnson, 515 U.S. 900 (1995).
           Georgia’s congressional districting plan violates the Equal Protec-
      tion Clause. The district court’s finding that race was the predomi-
      nant factor in drawing the boundaries of the Eleventh District was
      not clearly erroneous. The state did not meet its burden under strict
      scrutiny review to demonstrate that its districting was narrowly tai-
      lored to achieve a compelling interest.
             Justices concurring: Kennedy, O’Connor, Scalia, Thomas, Rehnquist, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Stevens, Ginsburg, Breyer, Souter

909. Fulton Corp. v. Faulkner, 516 U.S. 325 (1996).
           North Carolina’s intangibles tax on a fraction of the value of cor-
      porate stock owned by North Carolina residents inversely propor-
      tional to the corporation’s exposure to the state’s income tax, violates
      the “dormant” Commerce Clause. The tax facially discriminates against
      interstate commerce, and is not a “compensatory tax” designed to make
      interstate commerce bear a burden already borne by intrastate com-
      merce.

910. 44 Liquormart, Inc. v. Rhode Island, 517 U.S. 484 (1996).
           Rhode Island’s statutory prohibition against advertisements that
      provide the public with accurate information about retail prices of al-
      coholic beverages abridges freedom of speech protected by the First
      Amendment, and is not shielded from constitutional scrutiny by the
      Twenty-first Amendment. There is not a “reasonable fit” between the
      blanket prohibition and the state’s goal of reducing alcohol consump-
      tion.
             Justices concurring: Stevens, Scalia (in part), Kennedy (in part), Souter (in part),
               Thomas (in part), Ginsburg (in part)
