              Justices concurring: Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, Scalia, Kennedy
              Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J., White, O’Connor, Stevens

883. The Florida Star v. B.J.F., 491 U.S. 524 (1989).
           A Florida statute making it unlawful to print the name of a sexual
      assault victim is invalid under the First Amendment as applied to up-
      hold an award of damages against a newspaper for publishing a sexual
      assault victim’s name when the information was truthful, was law-
      fully obtained, and was otherwise publicly available as a result of a
      botched press release from the sheriff ’s department.
              Justices concurring: Marshall, Brennan, Blackmun, Stevens, Kennedy
              Justice concurring specially: Scalia
              Justices dissenting: White, O’Connor, Rehnquist, C.J.

884. McKoy v. North Carolina, 494 U.S. 433 (1990).
           North Carolina’s capital sentencing statute, interpreted to pre-
      vent a jury from considering any mitigating factor that the jury does
      not unanimously find, violates the Eighth Amendment. Instead, each
      juror must be allowed to consider and give effect to what he or she
      believes to be established mitigating evidence.
              Justices concurring: Marshall, Brennan, White, Blackmun, Stevens
              Justice concurring specially: Kennedy
              Justices dissenting: Scalia, O’Connor, Rehnquist, C.J.

885. Butterworth v. Smith, 494 U.S. 624 (1990).
           A Florida statute prohibiting the disclosure of grand jury testi-
      mony violates the First Amendment insofar as it prohibits a grand jury
      witness from disclosing, after the term of the grand jury has ended,
      information covered by his own testimony.

886. Peel v. Illinois Attorney Disciplinary Comm’n, 496 U.S. 91 (1990).
           An Illinois rule of professional responsibility violates the First Amend-
      ment by completely prohibiting an attorney from holding himself out
      as a civil trial specialist certified by the National Board of Trial Advo-
      cacy.
              Justices concurring: Stevens, Brennan, Blackmun, Kennedy
              Justice concurring specially: Marshall
              Justices dissenting: White, O’Connor, Scalia, Rehnquist, C.J.

887. Hodgson v. Minnesota, 497 U.S. 417 (1990).
          Minnesota’s requirement that a woman under 18 notify both her
      parents before having an abortion is invalid as a denial of due process
      because “it does not reasonably further any legitimate state interest.”
      However, an alternative judicial bypass system saves the statute as a
      whole.
