             Justice concurring specially: Rehnquist, C.J.
             Justice dissenting: Scalia

915. M.L.B. v. S.L.J., 519 U.S. 102 (1996).
           Mississippi statutes that condition appeals from trial court de-
      crees terminating parental rights on the affected parent’s ability to pay
      for preparation of a trial transcript violate the Equal Protection and
      Due Process Clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
             Justices concurring: Ginsburg, Stevens, O’Connor, Souter, Breyer
             Justice concurring specially: Kennedy
             Justice dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J., Thomas, Scalia

916. Lynce v. Mathis, 519 U.S. 433 (1997).
          A Florida statute canceling early release credits awarded to pris-
      oners as a result of prison overcrowding violates the Ex Post Facto
      Clause, Art. I, § 10, cl. 1, as applied to a prisoner who had already
      been awarded the credits and released from custody.
             Justices concurring: Stevens, O’Connor, Kennedy, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer,
               Rehnquist, C.J.
             Justice concurring specially: Thomas, Scalia

917. Chandler v. Miller, 520 U.S. 305 (1997).
           A Georgia statute requiring that candidates for state office certify
      that they have passed a drug test effects a “search” that is plainly not
      tied to individualized suspicion, and does not fit within the “closely
      guarded category of constitutionally permissible suspicionless searches,”
      and hence violates the Fourth Amendment. Georgia has failed to es-
      tablish existence of a “special need, beyond the normal need for law
      enforcement,” that can justify such a search.
             Justices concurring: Ginsburg, Stevens, O’Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Souter, Thomas,
               Breyer
             Justice dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J.

918. Camps Newfound/Owatonna, Inc. v. Town of Harrison, 520 U.S. 564
    (1997).
          Maine’s property tax law, which contains an exemption for chari-
      table institutions but limits that exemption to institutions serving prin-
      cipally Maine residents, is a form of protectionism that violates the
      “dormant” Commerce Clause as applied to deny exemption status to a
      nonprofit corporation that operates a summer camp for children, most
      of whom are not Maine residents.
             Justices concurring: Stevens, O’Connor, Kennedy, Souter, Breyer
             Justice dissenting: Scalia, Thomas, Ginsburg, Rehnquist, C.J.
