      reasonable steps to notify a property owner of intent to sell the prop-
      erty to satisfy a tax delinquency, after the initial notice was returned
      by the Post Office unclaimed.
             Justices concurring: Roberts, C.J., Stevens, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer
             Justices dissenting: Thomas, Scalia, Kennedy

944. Randall v. Sorrell, 548 U.S. 230 (2006).
          Vermont campaign finance statute’s limitations on both expendi-
      tures and contributions violated freedom of speech.
             Justices concurring: Breyer, Roberts, C.J., Alito, Kennedy, Thomas, Scalia
             Justices dissenting: Stevens, Souter, Ginsberg

945. Abdul-Kabir v. Quarterman, 550 U.S. 233, 237 (2007).
           Texas capital sentencing statute impermissibly prevented sentenc-
      ing “jurors from giving meaningful consideration to constitutionally rel-
      evant mitigating evidence.”
             Justices concurring: Stevens, Kennedy, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer
             Justices dissenting: Roberts, C.J., Scalia, Thomas, Alito

946. Brewer v. Quarterman, 550 U.S. 286, 288 (2007).
          “Texas capital sentencing statute impermissibly prevented sentenc-
      ing jury from giving meaningful consideration to constitutionally rel-
      evant mitigating evidence.”
             Justices concurring: Stevens, Kennedy, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer
             Justices dissenting: Roberts, C.J., Scalia, Thomas, Alito

947. Kennedy v. Louisiana, 554 U.S. 407 (2008).
           Louisiana’s statute that permits the death penalty for rape of a
      child under 12 is unconstitutional because the Eighth Amendment bars
      “the death penalty for the rape of a child where the crime did not re-
      sult, and was not intended to result, in the death of the victim.”
             Justices concurring: Kennedy, Stevens, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer
             Justices dissenting: Alito, Roberts, C.J., Scalia, Thomas

948. District of Columbia v. Heller, 128 S. Ct. 2783 (2008).
          A District of Columbia statute that banned virtually all hand-
      guns, and required that any other type of firearm in the home be dis-
      sembled or bound by a trigger lock at all times violates the Second
      Amendment, which the Court held to protect individuals’ right to bear
      arms.
             Justices concurring: Scalia, Roberts, C.J., Kennedy, Thomas, Alito
             Justices dissenting: Stevens, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer
