931. Cook v. Gralike, 531 U.S. 510 (2001).
           Provisions of the Missouri Constitution requiring identification on
      primary and general election ballots of congressional candidates who
      failed to support term limits in the prescribed manner are unconstitu-
      tional. States do not have power reserved by the Tenth Amendment to
      give binding instructions to their congressional representatives, and
      the “Elections Clause” of Article I, section 4, does not authorize the
      regulation. The Missouri ballot requirements do not relate to “times”
      or “places,” and are not valid regulations of the “manner” of holding
      elections.
              Justices concurring: Stevens, Scalia, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer
              Justices concurring specially: Rehnquist, C.J., Kennedy, Thomas, O’Connor, Souter

932. Bartnicki v. Vopper, 532 U.S. 514 (2001).
           A Pennsylvania prohibition on disclosure of the contents of an il-
      legally intercepted electronic communication violates the First Amend-
      ment as applied in this case. The defendants, a talk show host and a
      community activist, played no part in the illegal interception, and ob-
      tained the tapes lawfully. The subject matter of the disclosed conver-
      sation, involving a threat of violence in a labor dispute, was “a matter
      of public concern.”
              Justices concurring: Stevens, O’Connor, Kennedy, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer
              Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J., Scalia, Thomas

933. Lorillard Tobacco Co. v. Reilly,533 U.S. 525 (2001).
           Massachusetts’ restrictions on outdoor advertising and point-of-
      sale advertising of smokeless tobacco and cigars violate the First Amend-
      ment. The regulations prohibit outdoor advertising within 1,000 feet
      of a school, park, or playground, and prohibit “point-of-sale” advertis-
      ing placed lower than five feet above the floor of retail establish-
      ments. These restrictions do not satisfy the fourth step of the Central
      Hudson test for regulation of commercial speech. That step requires a
      “reasonable fit” between the means and ends of a regulation, yet the
      regulations are not “narrowly tailored” to achieve such a fit.
              Justices concurring: O’Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Souter (point-of-sale restric-
                tions only), Thomas
              Justices dissenting: Stevens, Ginsburg, Breyer, Souter (outdoor advertising only)

934. Ring v. Arizona, 536 U.S. 584 (2002).
           Arizona’s capital sentencing law violates the Sixth Amendment right
      to jury trial by allowing a sentencing judge to find an aggravating cir-
      cumstance necessary for imposition of the death penalty. The govern-
      ing principle was established in Apprendi v. New Jersey, 530 U.S. 466
      (2000), holding that any fact (other than the fact of a prior conviction)
