949. Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Association, 564 U.S. ___, No. 08–
    1448, slip op. (2011).
           California state law that imposed a civil fine of up to $1,000 for
      selling or renting “violent video games” to minors, and required their
      packaging to be so labeled, struck down as violation of the First Amend-
      ment, despite argument that, as related to the sale of these games to
      minors, that this form of speech fell out of First Amendment scrutiny.
             Justices concurring: Scalia, Kennedy, Souter, Ginsburg, Sotomayor, Kagan
             Justices concurring specially: Alito, Roberts, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Thomas, Breyer

950. Arizona Free Enterprise Club’s Freedom Club PAC v. Bennett, 564 U.S.
    ___, No. 10–238, slip op. (2011).
           Court struck down as violation of the First Amendment an Arizona
      voluntary public financing system which granted an initial allotment to
      the campaigns of candidates for state office who agreed to certain re-
      quirements and limitations, and made matching funds available if the
      expenditures of a privately financed opposing candidate, combined with
      the expenditures of any independent groups supporting that opposing can-
      didacy, exceeded the publically funded campaign’s initial allotment.
             Justices concurring: Roberts, C.J., Scalia, Kennedy, Thomas, Alito
             Justices dissenting: Kagan, Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor

951. Sorrell v. IMS Health, Inc., 564 U.S. ___, No. 10–779, slip op. (2011).
          New Hampshire restrictions on pharmacies and “data-miners” sell-
      ing or leasing information on the prescribing behavior of doctors for
      marketing purposes and related restrictions limiting the use of that
      information by pharmaceutical companies struck down as content-
      based and speaker-based restrictions on free speech, since there were
      numerous exceptions, including provisions allowing such prescriber-
      identifying information to be used for health care research.
             Justices concurring: Kennedy, Roberts, C.J., Scalia, Thomas, Alito, Sotomayor
             Justices dissenting: Breyer, Ginsburg, Kagan

952. Miller v. Alabama, 567 U.S. ___, No. 10–9646, slip op. (2012).
          Court struck down on Eighth Amendment grounds Alabama and
      Arkansas statutes mandating life imprisonment without possibility of
      parole for juvenile offenders convicted of homicide.
             Justices concurring: Kagan, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor
             Justices dissenting: Roberts, C.J., Scalia, Thomas, Alito
