      that increases the penalty for a crime beyond the prescribed statutory
      maximum must be submitted to a jury and proved beyond a reason-
      able doubt. The required finding of an aggravating circumstance ex-
      posed the defendant to a greater punishment than that authorized by
      the jury’s guilty verdict.
              Justices concurring: Ginsburg, Stevens, Scalia, Kennedy, Souter, Thomas
              Justice concurring specially: Breyer
              Justices dissenting: O’Connor, Rehnquist, C.J.

935. Atkins v. Virginia, 536 U.S. 304 (2002).
           Virginia’s capital punishment law is invalid to the extent that it
      authorizes execution of the mentally retarded. Execution of a men-
      tally retarded individual constitutes cruel and unusual punishment pro-
      hibited by the Eighth Amendment. Circumstances have changed since
      the Court upheld the practice in Penry v. Lynaugh, 492 U.S. 302 (1989);
      since that time 16 states have prohibited the practice, none has ap-
      proved it, and thus “a national consensus” has developed against ex-
      ecution of the mentally retarded. The Court’s “independent evaluation
      of the issue reveals no reason to disagree with the judgment of the
      legislatures” that have created this national consensus.
              Justices concurring: Stevens, O’Connor, Kennedy, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer
              Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J., Scalia, Thomas

936. Stogner v. California, 539 U.S. 607 (2003).
           A California statute that permits resurrection of an otherwise time-
      barred criminal prosecution for sexual abuse of a child, and that was
      itself enacted after the pre-existing limitations period had expired for
      the crimes at issue, violates the Ex Post Facto Clause of Art. I, § 10,
      cl. 1.
              Justices concurring: Breyer, Stevens, O’Connor, Souter, Ginsburg
              Justices dissenting: Kennedy, Scalia, Thomas, Rehnquist, C.J.

937. Virginia v. Black, 538 U.S. 343 (2003).
           The provision of Virginia’s cross-burning statute stating that a cross
      burning “shall be prima facie evidence of an intent to intimidate” is
      unconstitutional.
              Justices concurring: O’Connor, Stevens, Breyer, Rehnquist, C.J.
              Justices concurring specially: Souter, Kennedy, Ginsburg
              Justices dissenting: Scalia, Thomas

938. Lawrence v. Texas, 539 U.S. 558 (2003).
          A Texas statute making it a crime for two people of the same sex
      to engage in sodomy violates the Due Process Clause of the Four-
      teenth Amendment. The right to liberty protected by the Due Process
