      Clause includes the right of two adults, “with full and mutual consent
      from each other, [to] engag[e] in sexual practices common to a homo-
      sexual lifestyle.”
              Justices concurring: Kennedy, Stevens, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer
              Justice concurring specially: O’Connor
              Justices dissenting: Scalia, Thomas, Rehnquist, C.J.

939. Blakely v. Washington, 542 U.S. 296 (2004).
          Washington State’s sentencing law, which allows a judge to im-
      pose a sentence above the standard range if he finds “substantial and
      compelling reasons justifying an exceptional sentence,” is inconsistent
      with the Sixth Amendment right to trial by jury.
              Justices concurring: Scalia, Stevens, Souter, Thomas, Ginsburg
              Justices dissenting: O’Connor, Breyer, Kennedy, Rehnquist, C.J.

940. Granholm v. Heald, 544 U.S. 460 (2005).
           Michigan and New York laws that allow in-state wineries to sell
      wine directly to consumers but prohibit or discourage out-of-state win-
      eries from doing so discriminate against interstate commerce in viola-
      tion of the Commerce Clause, and are not authorized by the Twenty-
      first Amendment.
              Justices concurring: Kennedy, Scalia, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer
              Justices dissenting: Stevens, O’Connor, Thomas, Rehnquist, C.J.

941. Halbert v. Michigan, 545 U.S. 605 (2005).
           A Michigan statute making appointment of appellate counsel dis-
      cretionary with the court for indigent criminal defendants who plead
      nolo contendere or guilty is unconstitutional to the extent that it de-
      prives indigents of the right to the appointment of counsel to seek “first-
      tier review” in the Michigan Court of Appeals.
              Justices concurring: Ginsburg, Stevens, O’Connor, Kennedy, Souter, Breyer
              Justices dissenting: Thomas, Scalia, Rehnquist, C.J.

942. Roper v. Simmons, 543 U.S. 551 (2005).
           Missouri’s law setting the minimum age at 16 for persons eligible
      for the death penalty violates the Eighth Amendment’s ban on cruel
      and unusual punishment as applied to persons who were under 18 at
      the time they committed their offense.
              Justices concurring: Kennedy, Stevens, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer
              Justices dissenting: O’Connor, Scalia, Thomas, Rehnquist, C.J.

943. Jones v. Flowers, 547 U.S. 220 (2006).
          Arkansas statute violated due process when interpreted not to re-
      quire the Arkansas Commissioner of State Lands to take additional
