      that increases the penalty for a crime beyond the prescribed statutory
      maximum must be submitted to a jury and established beyond a rea-
      sonable doubt.
             Justices concurring: Stevens, Scalia, Souter, Thomas, Ginsburg
             Justices concurring specially: Thomas
             Justices dissenting: O’Connor, Rehnquist, C.J., Kennedy, Breyer

928. California Democratic Party v. Jones, 530 U.S. 567 (2000).
           California’s “blanket primary” law violates the First Amendment
      associational rights of political parties. The law lists all candidates on
      one ballot and allows primary voters to choose freely among candi-
      dates without regard to party affiliation. The law “adulterate[s]” a par-
      ty’s candidate-selection process by forcing the party to open up that
      process to persons wholly unaffiliated with the party, and is not nar-
      rowly tailored to serve a compelling state interest.
             Justices concurring: Scalia, Rehnquist, C.J., O’Connor, Kennedy, Souter, Thomas,
               Breyer
             Justices dissenting: Stevens, Ginsburg

929. Boy Scouts of America v. Dale, 530 U.S. 640 (2000).
          Application of New Jersey’s public accommodations law to require
      the Boy Scouts of America to admit an avowed homosexual as a mem-
      ber and assistant scout master violates the organization’s First Amend-
      ment associational rights. The general mission of the Scouts, to instill
      values in young people, is expressive activity entitled to First Amend-
      ment protection, and requiring the Scouts to admit a gay scout leader
      would contravene the Scouts’ asserted policy disfavoring homosexual
      conduct.
             Justices concurring: Rehnquist, C.J., O’Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Thomas
             Justices dissenting: Stevens, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer

930. Stenberg v. Carhart, 530 U.S. 914 (2000).
           Nebraska’s statute criminalizing the performance of “partial birth
      abortions” is unconstitutional under principles set forth in Roe v. Wade
      and Planned Parenthood v. Casey. The statute lacks an exception for
      instances in which the banned procedure is necessary to preserve the
      health of the mother, and, because it applies to the commonplace dila-
      tion and evacuation procedure as well as to the dilation and extrac-
      tion method, imposes an “undue burden” on a woman’s right to an abor-
      tion.
             Justices concurring: Breyer, Stevens, O’Connor, Souter, Ginsburg
             Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J., Scalia, Kennedy, Thomas
