              Justices dissenting: Harlan, Brewer

16. City of Cleveland v. Cleveland City Ry., 194 U.S. 517 (1904).
           Ordinance reducing the rate of fares to be charged by railway com-
       panies lower than cited in previous ordinances held to impair the obli-
       gation of contract.

17. Dobbins v. City of Los Angeles, 195 U.S. 223 (1904).
          No change in the neighborhood having occurred between passage
      of two zoning ordinances, the second, which excluded a gas company
      from erecting a plant within the area authorized by the first ordi-
      nance, was held to effect an arbitrary deprivation of property without
      due process of law.

18. City of Cleveland v. Cleveland Electric Ry., 201 U.S. 529 (1906).
           Ordinance according to a consolidated municipal railway an exten-
       sion of the duration date of franchises issued to its predecessors, in
       consideration of which substantial sums were expended on improve-
       ments, gave rise to a new contract, which was impaired by later at-
       tempt on the part of the city to reduce the rate stipulated in the fran-
       chises thus extended.

19. Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U.S. 507 (1906).
           A Sunbury, Pennsylvania ordinance imposing a license fee for the
      solicitation of orders for the sale of merchandise not of the parties own
      manufacture imposed an invalid burden on interstate commerce when
      applied to a Pennsylvania agent of an Ohio company who solicited or-
      ders for the latter’s products and upon receipt of the latter, consigned
      to a designated purchaser, consummated the sale by delivering the mer-
      chandise to such purchaser and, upon the latter’s approval of the par-
      cel delivered, collected the purchase price for transmission to the Ohio
      employer.

20. Mayor of Vicksburg v. Vicksburg Waterworks Co., 206 U.S. 496 (1907).
           Municipal contract with utility fixing the maximum rate to be charged
      for supplying water to inhabitants was invalidly impaired by subse-
      quent ordinances altering said rates.

21. Londoner v. City of Denver, 210 U.S. 373 (1908).
          The due process requirements of notice and hearing in connection
      with the assessment of taxes were violated by a municipal assessment
      ordinance which afforded the taxpayer the privilege of filing objec-
      tions but no opportunity to support his objections by argument and
      proof in open hearing.
              Justices concurring: Moody, Harlan, Brewer, White, Peckham, McKenna, Day
