              Justices concurring: Stone, C.J., Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge
              Justices dissenting: Roberts, Reed, Jackson

63. Follett v. Town of McCormick, 321 U.S. 573 (1944).
            A McCormick, South Carolina, ordinance required agents selling
      books to pay a license fee of $1.00 per day or $15.00 per year. The
      constitutional guarantee of religious freedom under the First and Four-
      teenth Amendments precludes exacting a book agent’s license fee from
      a distributor of religious literature notwithstanding that his activities
      are confined to his hometown and his livelihood is derived from contri-
      butions requested for the literature distributed.
              Justices concurring: Stone, C.J., Black, Reed, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge
              Justices dissenting: Roberts, Frankfurter, Jackson

64. Nippert v. City of Richmond, 327 U.S. 416 (1946).
           A Richmond, Virginia, City Code imposed upon persons “engaged
      in business as solicitors an annual license tax of $50.00 plus one-half
      of one per centum of their gross receipts or commissions for the pre-
      ceding license year in excess of $1,000.00.” Permit of Director of Pub-
      lic Safety was required before issuance of the license. The ordinance
      violated the Commerce Clause because it discriminated against out-of-
      state merchants in favor of local ones and operated as a barrier to the
      introduction of out-of-state merchandise.
              Justices concurring: Stone, C.J., Reed, Frankfurter, Rutledge, Burton
              Justices dissenting: Black, Douglas, Murphy

65. Joseph v. Carter & Weekes Stevedoring Co., 330 U.S. 422 (1947).
           A New York City law provided that, for the privilege of carrying
      on within the city any trade, business, or profession, every person
      shall pay a tax of one-tenth of one per centum upon all receipts re-
      ceived in or allocable to the city during the year. The excise tax
      levied on the gross receipts of a stevedoring corporation is invalid
      as a burden on interstate and foreign commerce in violation of the
      Commerce Clause.
              Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Reed, Frankfurter, Douglas (dissenting in part),
                Murphy (dissenting in part), Jackson, Rutledge (dissenting in part), Burton
              Justice dissenting: Black

66. Saia v. New York, 334 U.S. 558 (1948).
           A Lockport ordinance forbidding use of sound amplification ex-
      cepted public dissemination, through loudspeakers, of news, matters
      of public concern, and athletic activities, provided that the latter be
      done under permission obtained from the Chief of Police. The ordi-
      nance is unconstitutional on its face as a prior restraint on speech, in
