      violation of the First Amendment, made applicable to the states by
      the Fourteenth Amendment. No standards were prescribed for the ex-
      ercise of discretion by the Chief of Police.
             Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Black, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge
             Justices dissenting: Reed, Frankfurter, Jackson, Burton

67. Terminiello v. City of Chicago, 337 U.S. 1 (1949).
           A Chicago ordinance proscribed the making of improper noises or
      other conduct contributing to a breach of the peace. Petitioner was con-
      victed of violating said ordinance by reason of the fact that he had
      addressed a large audience in an auditorium where he had vigorously
      criticized various political and racial groups as well as the distur-
      bances produced by an angry and turbulent crowd protesting his ap-
      pearance. At this trial, the judge instructed the jury that any behav-
      ior that stirs the public to anger, invites dispute, brings about a condition
      of unrest, or creates a disturbance, violates the ordinance. As con-
      strued and applied by the trial court the ordinance violates the right
      of free speech guaranteed by the First Amendment and made appli-
      cable to the states by the Fourteenth Amendment.
             Justices concurring: Black, Reed, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge
             Justices dissenting: Vinson, C.J., Frankfurter, Jackson, Burton

68. Kunz v. New York, 340 U.S. 290 (1951).
           Because of prior denunciation of other religious beliefs, appel-
      lant’s license to conduct religious meetings on New York City streets
      was revoked. A local ordinance forbade the holding of such meetings
      without a license but contained no provisions for revocation of such
      licenses and no standard to guide administrative action in granting or
      denying permits. Appellant was convicted for holding religious meet-
      ings without a permit. The ordinance was held to grant discretionary
      power to control in advance the right of citizens to speak on religious
      issues and to impose a prior restraint on the exercise of freedom of
      speech and religion.
             Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Black, Reed, Frankfurter, Douglas, Burton,
               Clark, Minton
             Justices dissenting: Jackson

69. Dean Milk Co. v. City of Madison, 340 U.S. 349 (1951).
           A Madison, Wisconsin, ordinance prohibited the sale of milk as pas-
      teurized unless it had been processed and bottled at an approved plant
      within a radius of five miles from the central square of Madison. An
      Illinois corporation, engaged in gathering and distributing milk from
      farms in Illinois and Wisconsin was denied a license to sell milk within
