      the city solely because its pasteurization plants were more than five
      miles away. The ordinance unjustifiably discriminated against inter-
      state commerce in violation of the Commerce Clause.
              Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Reed, Frankfurter, Jackson, Burton, Clark
              Justices dissenting: Black, Douglas, Minton

70. Gelling v. Texas, 343 U.S. 960 (1952).
           Marshall City, Texas, motion picture censorship ordinance, as en-
      forced, was unconstitutional as denying freedom of speech and press
      protected by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

71. Fowler v. Rhode Island, 345 U.S. 67 (1953).
           A Pawtucket ordinance read: “No person shall address any politi-
      cal or religious meeting in any public park, but this section shall not
      be construed to prohibit any political or religious club or society from
      visiting any public park in a body, provided that no public address shall
      be made under the auspices of such club or society in such park.” Be-
      cause services of a Jehovah’s Witnesses sect differed from those con-
      ducted by other religious groups, in that the former were marked by
      lectures rather than confined to orthodox rituals, that sect was pre-
      vented from holding religious meetings in parks. Thus applied, the or-
      dinance was held to violate the First and Fourteenth Amendments,
      including the Equal Protection Clause.

72. Slochower v. Board of Higher Education, 350 U.S. 551 (1956).
            Section 903 of the New York City Charter provides that whenever
       a city employee invokes the privilege against self-incrimination to avoid
       answering inquiries into his official conduct by a legislative commit-
       tee, his employment shall terminate. The summary dismissal thereun-
       der, without notice and hearing, of a teacher at City College who was
       entitled to tenure and could be discharged only for cause and after
       notice, hearing and appeal, violated the Due Process Clause of the Four-
       teenth Amendment. Invocation of the privilege to justify refusal to an-
       swer questions of a congressional committee concerning membership
       in the Communist Party in 1948–1949 cannot be viewed as the equiva-
       lent either to a confession of guilt or a conclusive presumption of per-
       jury.
              Justices concurring: Black (concurring specially), Douglas (concurring specially),
                Warren, C.J., Frankfurter, Clark
              Justices dissenting: Reed, Burton, Minton, Harlan

73. Holmes v. City of Atlanta, 350 U.S. 879 (1955).
           Atlanta ordinance that reserved certain public parks and golf courses
      for white persons only violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Four-
      teenth Amendment.
