40. City of Los Angeles v. Los Angeles Gas Corp., 251 U.S. 32 (1919).
           A Los Angeles ordinance authorizing city to establish lighting sys-
       tem of its own could not effect removal of fixtures of a lighting com-
       pany occupying streets pursuant to rights granted by a prior fran-
       chise without paying compensation required by Due Process Clause.
              Justices concurring: McKenna, White, C.J., Holmes, Day, Van Devanter,
                McReynolds, Brandeis
              Justices dissenting: Pitney, Clarke

41. City of Houston v. Southwestern Tel. Co., 259 U.S. 318 (1922).
            A Houston ordinance was void because the rates it fixed were con-
       fiscatory and deprived the utility of its property without due process
       of law.

42. City of Paducah v. Paducah Ry., 261 U.S. 267 (1923).
           Fares prescribed by an ordinance of Kentucky city were confisca-
       tory and deprived the utility of property without due process of law.

43. Texas Transp. Co. v. City of New Orleans, 264 U.S. 150 (1924).
           A New Orleans license tax ordinance could not be validly enforced
      as to the business of a corporation employed as agent by owners of
      vessels engaged exclusively in interstate and foreign commerce, where
      its business was a necessary adjunct of said commerce and consisted
      of the soliciting and engaging of cargo, the nomination of vessels to
      carry it, arranging for delivery on wharf and for stevedores, payment
      of ships’ disbursements, issuing bills of lading, and collecting freight
      charges.
              Justices concurring: Sutherland, Taft, C.J., Sanford, McReynolds, Butler, McKenna,
                Van Devanter
              Justices dissenting: Brandeis, Holmes

44. Real Silk Mills v. City of Portland, 268 U.S. 325 (1925).
           A Portland, Oregon, ordinance that exacted a license fee and a bond
      for insuring delivery from solicitors who go from place to place taking
      orders for goods for future delivery and receiving deposits in advance
      was invalid as unduly burdening interstate commerce when enforced
      against solicitors taking orders for an out-of-state corporation which
      confirmed the orders, shipped the merchandise directly to the custom-
      ers, and permitted the solicitors to retain the deposited portion of the
      purchase as compensation.

45. Mayor of Vidalia v. McNeely, 274 U.S. 676 (1927).
          An ordinance of Louisiana municipality that exacted license as a
      condition precedent for operation of a ferry across boundary waters sepa-
      rating two states imposed an invalid burden on interstate commerce.
