      where the handbills contained an invitation to participate in a reli-
      gious activity, a denial of freedom of religion, in violation of the First
      and Fourteenth Amendments.

59. Largent v. Texas, 318 U.S. 418 (1943).
            A Paris City ordinance making it unlawful for any person to so-
      licit orders or to sell books, wares or merchandise within the residen-
      tial portion of Paris without a permit is invalid as applied. The ordi-
      nance abridges the freedom of religion, speech, and press guaranteed
      by the Fourteenth Amendment in that it forbids the distribution of
      religious publications without a permit, the issuance of which is in the
      discretion of a municipal officer.

60. Jones v. City of Opelika, 319 U.S. 103 (1943).
           An Opelika, Alabama, ordinance imposing licenses and taxes on vari-
      ous businesses cannot constitutionally be applied to the business of sell-
      ing books and pamphlets on the streets or from house to house. As ap-
      plied the ordinance infringes liberties of speech and press and religion
      guaranteed by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
              Justices concurring: Stone, C.J., Black, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge
              Justices dissenting: Reed, Roberts, Frankfurter, Jackson

61. Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U.S. 105, 113 (1943).
           An ordinance of the City of Jeanette providing that all persons
      soliciting orders for merchandise of any kind, or persons delivering such
      articles under such orders, must procure a license and pay a fee, vio-
      lates the First and Fourteenth Amendments when applied to persons
      soliciting orders for religious books and pamphlets, because “[a] state
      may not impose a charge for the enjoyment of a right granted by the
      Federal Constitution.”
              Justices concurring: Stone, C.J., Black, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge
              Justices dissenting: Roberts, Reed, Frankfurter, Jackson

62. Martin v. City of Struthers, 319 U.S. 141 (1943).
           An ordinance of Struthers, Ohio, made it unlawful for any person dis-
      tributing handbills, circulars, or other advertisements to ring the door
      bell, sound the door knocker, or otherwise summon occupants of any resi-
      dence to the door for the purpose of receiving such handbills, etc. The or-
      dinance, as applied to one distributing leaflets advertising a religious meet-
      ing, interfered with the rights of freedom of speech and press guaranteed
      by the First Amendment. The ordinance, by failing to distinguish be-
      tween householders who are willing to receive the literature and those
      who are not, extended further than was necessary for protection of the
      community.
