46. Delaware, L. & W.R.R. v. Town of Morristown, 276 U.S. 182 (1928).
          A New Jersey municipal ordinance that compelled use of railroad
      station grounds for a public hackstand without compensation de-
      prived the railroad of property without due process.
              Justices concurring: Brandeis, Holmes (separately)

47. Sprout v. City of South Bend, 277 U.S. 163 (1928).
           An Indiana municipal ordinance that exacted from motor bus op-
      erators a license fee adjusted to the seating capacity of a bus could
      not be validly enforced against an interstate carrier, for the fee was
      not exacted to defray expenses of regulating traffic in the interest of
      safety, or to defray the cost of road maintenance or as an occupation
      tax imposed solely on account of intrastate business.

48. Nectow v. City of Cambridge, 277 U.S. 183 (1928).
           A Massachusetts municipal zoning ordinance that placed owner’s
      land in a residential district with resulting inhibition of use for com-
      mercial purposes deprived the owner of property without due process
      because the requirement did not promote health, safety, morals, or gen-
      eral welfare.

49. Washington ex rel. Seattle Title Trust Co. v. Roberge,278 U.S. 116 (1928).
           A municipal (Washington) zoning ordinance that conditioned issu-
      ance of a permit to enlarge a home for the aged in a residential area
      on the approval of the owners of two-thirds of the property within 400
      feet of the proposed building violated due process because the condi-
      tion bore no relationship to public health, safety, and morals and en-
      tailed an improper delegation of legislative power to private citizens.

50. Lovell v. City of Griffin, 303 U.S. 444 (1938).
          A Griffin, Georgia, ordinance that exacted a permit for the distri-
      bution of literature by hand or otherwise violated freedom of press as
      guaranteed by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
      by imposing censorship in advance of publication.

51. Hague v. CIO, 307 U.S. 496 (1939).
           A Jersey City ordinance forbidding distribution of printed matter
      and the holding, without permits, of public meetings in streets and
      other public places withheld freedom of speech and assembly contrary
      to the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
              Justices concurring: Roberts, Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Stone, Reed, Hughes
                (concurred with opinions of Robert Stone), C.J.
              Justices dissenting: McReynolds, Butler
