95. Moore v. City of East Cleveland, 431 U.S. 494 (1977).
           An East Cleveland zoning ordinance that limited housing occu-
      pancy to members of single family and restrictively defined family so
      as to prevent an extended family, i.e., two grandchildren by different
      children residing with grandmother, violated the Due Process Clause.
              Justices concurring: Powell, Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun
              Justice concurring specially: Stevens
              Justices dissenting: Stewart, Rehnquist, White; Burger (on other grounds)

96. Carter v. Miller, 434 U.S. 356 (1978).
           A lower court’s invalidation on equal protection grounds of a Chi-
      cago ordinance that permanently denies public chauffeur’s license to
      applicants previously convicted of certain crimes, but making revoca-
      tion of previously licensed persons convicted of the same offenses dis-
      cretionary, is affirmed by an equally divided Court.

97. Village of Schaumburg v. Citizens for a Better Environment, 444 U.S. 620
    (1980).
           A Schaumburg, Illinois ordinance prohibiting door-to-door or on-
       the-street solicitation of contributions by charitable organizations that
       do not use at least 75 percent of their receipts for “charitable pur-
       poses” violates First and Fourteenth Amendment speech protections.
              Justices concurring: White, Brennan, Stewart, Marshall, Blackmun, Powell,
                Stevens, Burger, C.J.
              Justice dissenting: Rehnquist

98. Edwards v. Service Machine & Shipbuilding Corp., 449 U.S. 913 (1980).
           A court of appeals decision voiding on Commerce Clause grounds
      an ordinance of St. Mary Parish, Louisiana requiring non-local job seek-
      ers and local workers seeking new jobs to obtain an identification card,
      to provide fingerprints and a photograph, and to pay a fee, is summar-
      ily affirmed.

99. Town of Southampton v. Troyer, 449 U.S. 988 (1980).
          A court of appeals decision invalidating on First Amendment grounds
      an ordinance of Southampton, New York barring door-to-door solicita-
      tion without prior consent of the occupant, but excepting canvassers
      who have lived in the municipality at least six months, is affirmed.

100. Schad v. Borough of Mount Ephraim, 452 U.S. 61 (1981).
          A Mount Ephraim, New Jersey zoning ordinance construed to bar
      the offering of live entertainment within the township violated the First
      Amendment.
              Justices concurring: White, Brennan, Stewart, Marshall, Blackmun, Powell
