116. Lee v. International Soc’y for Krishna Consciousness, 505 U.S. 830 (1992).
           A regulation of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey
      banning leafleting (“the sale or distribution of . . . printed or written
      material” to passers-by) within the airport terminals operated by the
      facility is invalid under the First Amendment.
              Justices concurring (per curiam): Blackmun, Stevens, O’Connor, Kennedy, Souter
              Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J., White, Scalia, Thomas

117. City of Cincinnati v. Discovery Network, Inc., 507 U.S. 410 (1993).
           Cincinnati’s refusal, pursuant to an ordinance prohibiting distribu-
      tion of commercial handbills on public property, to allow the distribu-
      tion of commercial publications through freestanding news racks lo-
      cated on public property, while at the same time allowing similar
      distribution of newspapers and other noncommercial publications, vio-
      lates the First Amendment.
              Justices concurring: Stevens, Blackmun, O’Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Souter
              Justices dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J., White, Thomas

118. Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye v. City of Hialeah, 508 U.S. 520 (1993).
           Hialeah, Florida’s ordinances banning the killing of animals in a
      ritual sacrifice are unconstitutional as infringing the free exercise of
      religion by members of the Santeria religion.
              Justices concurring: Kennedy, White, Stevens, Scalia, Souter, Thomas,
                Rehnquist, C.J.
              Justices concurring specially: Blackmun, O’Connor

119. C & A Carbone, Inc. v. Town of Clarkstown, 511 U.S. 383 (1994).
           Clarkstown, New York’s “flow control” ordinance, which requires
      all solid waste within the town to be processed at a designated trans-
      fer station before leaving the municipality, discriminates against inter-
      state commerce and is invalid under the Commerce Clause.
              Justices concurring: Kennedy, Stevens, Scalia, Thomas, Ginsburg
              Justice concurring specially: O’Connor
              Justices dissenting: Souter, Blackmun, Rehnquist, C.J.

120. City of Ladue v. Gilleo, 512 U.S. 43 (1994).
           Ladue, Missouri’s ordinance, which prohibits all signs but makes
      exceptions for several narrow categories, violates the First Amend-
      ment by prohibiting a resident from placing in the window of her home
      a sign containing a political message. By prohibiting residential signs
      that carry political, religious, or personal messages, the ordinance fore-
      closes “a venerable means of communication that is both unique and
      important.”
