              Justice concurring specially: Stevens
              Justices dissenting: Burger, C.J., Rehnquist

101. Metromedia v. City of San Diego, 453 U.S. 490 (1981).
           A complex ban on billboard displays within the City of San Diego,
      excepting certain onsite signs and 12 categories of particular signs, vio-
      lates First Amendment.
              Justices concurring: White, Stewart, Marshall, Powell
              Justices concurring specially: Brennan, Blackmun, Stevens (in part)
              Justices dissenting: Burger, C.J., Rehnquist

102. Citizens Against Rent Control v. City of Berkeley, 454 U.S. 290 (1981).
           A Berkeley, California ordinance limiting to $250 any contribu-
      tions to committees formed to support or oppose ballot measures sub-
      mitted to popular vote violates the First Amendment.
              Justices concurring: Burger, C.J., Brennan, Powell, Rehnquist, Stevens
              Justices concurring specially: Marshall, Blackmun, O’Connor
              Justice dissenting: White

103. Rusk v. Espinosa, 456 U.S. 951 (1982).
           A court of appeals decision affirming a federal district court injunc-
      tion of an Albuquerque, New Mexico ordinance, as a violation of the
      First Amendment, is summarily affirmed. The ordinance regulated so-
      licitation by charitable organizations but exempted solicitation by reli-
      gious groups for religious but not for secular purposes.

104. Giacobbe v. Andrews, 459 U.S. 801 (1982).
           A federal district court decision holding that New York City’s plan
      for apportioning 10 at-large seats for the City Council among the City’s
      five boroughs violates the one person, one vote requirements of the
      Equal Protection Clause, which was summarily affirmed by the U.S.
      Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, is summarily affirmed.

105. City of Akron v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health, 462 U.S. 416
    (1983) (subsequently overruled in part).
          An Akron, Ohio ordinance regulating the circumstances of abor-
      tions is unconstitutional in the following respects: by requiring all abor-
      tions performed after the first trimester to be performed in a hospital,
      by requiring parental consent or court order for abortions performed
      on minors under age 15, by requiring the attending physician to pro-
      vide detailed information on which “informed consent” may be pre-
      mised, by requiring a 24-hour waiting period, and by requiring dis-
      posal of fetal remains in a “humane and sanitary manner.”
              Justices concurring: Powell, Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, Stevens, Burger, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: O’Connor, White, Rehnquist
