      withstanding that he had no knowledge of its contents. Such construction
      would tend to restrict the books he sells to those he has inspected and
      thereby to limit the public’s access to constitutionally protected publi-
      cations.
              Justices concurring: Clark, Warren, C.J., Whittaker, Brennan, Stewart, Black
                (separately), Frankfurter (separately), Douglas (separately), Harlan (dissent-
                ing in part; separately)

78. Bates v. City of Little Rock, 361 U.S. 516 (1960).
           Little Rock and North Little Rock, Arkansas, ordinances that, as
      a condition of exempting charitable organizations from an annual busi-
      ness license tax, required the disclosure of the identity of the officers
      and members of said organizations, as enforced against the N.A.A.C.P.,
      denied members of the latter freedom of association, press, and speech
      as guaranteed by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amend-
      ment.
              Justices concurring: Brennan, Clark, Frankfurter, Stewart, Warren, C.J., Whittaker,
                Harlan, Black (separately), Douglas (separately)

79. Talley v. California, 362 U.S. 60 (1960).
           Los Angeles ordinance that forbade distribution under any circum-
      stance of any handbill that did not have printed on it the name and
      address of the person who prepared, distributed, or sponsored it was
      void on its face as abridging freedom of speech and press guaranteed
      by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The ordi-
      nance was not limited to identifying those responsible for fraud, false
      advertising, libel, disorder, or littering.
              Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Stewart, Harlan (separately), Douglas, Black
              Justices dissenting: Clark, Frankfurter, Whittaker

80. Schroeder v. City of New York, 371 U.S. 208 (1962).
           New York City Water Supply Act, insofar as it authorized notifica-
      tion of land owners, whose summer resort property would be adversely
      affected by city’s diversion of water, by publication of notices in Janu-
      ary in New York City official newspaper and in newspapers in the county
      where the resort property was located as well as by notices posted on trees
      and poles along the waterway adjacent to such property, did not afford
      the quality of notice, i.e., to the owners’ permanent home address, re-
      quired by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

81. Camara v. Municipal Court, 387 U.S. 523 (1967).
           San Francisco ordinance authorizing warrantless entry of residen-
      tial property to inspect for housing code violations violates Fourth and
      Fourteenth Amendments.
