121. City of Chicago v. Morales, 527 U.S. 41 (1999).
           Chicago’s Gang Congregation Ordinance, which prohibits “crimi-
      nal street gang members” from “loitering” with one another or with
      other persons in any public place after being ordered by a police offi-
      cer to disperse, violates the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amend-
      ment. The ordinance violates the requirement that a legislature estab-
      lish minimal guidelines for law enforcement.
              Justices concurring: Stevens, O’Connor, Kennedy, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer
              Justices dissenting: Scalia, Thomas, Rehnquist, C.J.

122. Watchtower Bible & Tract Soc’y v. Village of Stratton, 536 U.S. 150 (2002).
           The Ohio village’s ordinance making it a misdemeanor offense to
      engage in door-to-door advocacy without first registering with the mayor
      and receiving a permit, required to be shown to an officer or resident
      who so requests, violates the First Amendment. The free and unham-
      pered distribution of pamphlets is “an age-old form of missionary evan-
      gelism,” and is also important for the dissemination of ideas unre-
      lated to religion. The ordinance is not narrowly tailored to serve the
      village’s “important,” interests in preventing crime, preventing fraud,
      and protecting privacy.
              Justices concurring: Stevens, O’Connor, Kennedy, Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer
              Justices concurring specially: Scalia, Thomas
              Justice dissenting: Rehnquist, C.J.

123. Polar Tankers, Inc. v. City of Valdez, Alaska, 557 U.S. ___, No. 08–310
    (2009).
           Alaska city’s “ordinance imposing a personal property tax upon
      ‘[b]oats and vessels of at least 95 feet in length’ that regularly travel
      to the City, are kept or used within the City, or which annually take
      on at least $1 million worth of cargo or engage in other business trans-
      actions of comparable value in the City,” violates the Tonnage Clause
      (Art. I, § 10, cl. 3).
              Justices concurring: Breyer, Scalia, Kennedy, Ginsburg, Alito
              Justices concurring specially: Roberts, C.J., Thomas
              Justice dissenting: Stevens, Souter

124. McDonald v. Chicago, 561 U.S. ___, No. 08–1521, slip op. (2010).
          A Chicago ordinance effectively banning handgun possession by al-
      most all private citizens who reside in the city, and an Oak Park, Illi-
      nois ordinance that makes it “unlawful for any person to possess . . .
      any firearm” including handguns, violate the Second Amendment. A
      plurality of the Court found that the Second Amendment is fully appli-
      cable to the states through the Fourteenth Amendment, as self-
      defense through use of firearms is “fundamental to the Nation’s scheme
