      duct is forbidden, because it encourages arbitrary and erratic enforce-
      ment of the law, because it makes criminal activities which by mod-
      ern standards are normally innocent, and because it vests unfettered
      discretion in police.
89. Police Dep’t of Chicago v. Mosley, 408 U.S. 92 (1972).
           A Chicago ordinance prohibiting all picketing within a certain dis-
      tance of any school except labor picketing violates the Equal Protec-
      tion Clause by impermissibly distinguishing between types of peaceful
      picketing.
90. Cason v. City of Columbus, 409 U.S. 1053 (1972).
          A Columbus, Ohio ordinance prohibiting use of abusive language
      toward another as applied by court below without limitation to fight-
      ing words cannot sustain conviction.
91. Lewis v. City of New Orleans, 415 U.S. 130 (1974).
          New Orleans ordinance interpreted by state courts to punish the
      use of opprobrious words to police officer without limitation of offense
      to uttering of fighting words is invalid.
              Justices concurring: Brennan, Douglas, Stewart, White, Marshall
              Justice concurring specially: Powell
              Justices dissenting: Blackmun, Rehnquist, Burger, C.J.

92. Erznoznik v. City of Jacksonville, 422 U.S. 205 (1975).
           A Jacksonville, Florida ordinance making it a public nuisance and
      a punishable offense for a drive-in movie theater to exhibit films con-
      taining nudity, when the screen is visible from a public street or place,
      is facially invalid as an infringement of First Amendment rights.
              Justices concurring: Powell, Douglas, Brennan, Stewart, Marshall, Blackmun
              Justices dissenting: White, Rehnquist, Burger, C.J.

93. Hynes v. Mayor of Oradell, 425 U.S. 610 (1976).
            An Oradell, New Jersey ordinance requiring that advance written
      notice be given to local police by any person desiring to canvass, so-
      licit, or call from house to house for a charitable or political purpose
      was held void for vagueness.
              Justices concurring: Burger, C.J., Brennan, Stewart, White, Marshall, Blackmun,
                Powell
              Justice dissenting: Rehnquist

94. Linmark Assocs. v. Township of Willingboro, 431 U.S. 85 (1977).
          A Wilingboro, New Jersey ordinance prohibiting posting of real es-
      tate “For Sale” and “Sold” signs for the purpose of stemming what the
      township perceived as flight of white homeowners violated the First
      Amendment.
