112. New York City Bd. of Estimate v. Morris, 489 U.S. 688 (1989).
          New York City Charter procedures for electing City’s Board of Es-
      timate, consisting of three members elected citywide (the Mayor, the
      comptroller, and the president of the City Council) and the elected presi-
      dents of the city’s five boroughs, violate the one-person, one-vote re-
      quirements derived from the Equal Protection Clause.
              Justices concurring: White, Marshall, O’Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Rehnquist, C.J.
              Justices concurring specially: Blackmun, Brennan, Stevens

113. FW/PBS, Inc. v. City of Dallas, 493 U.S. 215 (1990).
            Dallas licensing scheme for “sexually oriented” businesses, as ap-
      plied to businesses that engage in protected First Amendment activ-
      ity, constitutes an invalid prior restraint on protected activity. The or-
      dinance fails to place a time limit within which the licensing authority
      must act, and fails to provide a prompt avenue for judicial review.
              Justices concurring: O’Connor, Stevens, Kennedy
              Justices concurring specially: Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun
              Justices dissenting: White, Scalia, Rehnquist, C.J.

114. R. A. V. v. City of St. Paul, 505 U.S. 377 (1992).
          St. Paul, Minnesota’s Bias-Motivated Crime Ordinance, which
      punishes the display of a symbol which one knows will arouse an-
      ger, alarm, or resentment in others on the basis of race, color,
      creed, religion, or gender, is facially invalid under the First Amend-
      ment because it discriminates solely on the basis of the subjects
      that speech addresses.
              Justices concurring: Scalia, Kennedy, Souter, Thomas, Rehnquist, C.J.
              Justices concurring specially: White, Blackmun, O’Connor, Stevens

115. Lee v. Weisman, 505 U.S. 577 (1992).
           Providence, Rhode Island’s use of members of the clergy to offer
      prayers at official public secondary school graduation ceremonies vio-
      lates the First Amendment’s Establishment Clause. The involvement
      of public school officials with religious activity was “pervasive,” to the
      point of creating a state-sponsored and state-directed religious exer-
      cise in a public school; officials not only determined that an invocation
      and benediction should be given, but also selected the religious partici-
      pant and provided him with guidelines for the content of nonsectarian
      prayers.
              Justices concurring: Kennedy, Blackmun, Stevens, O’Connor, Souter
              Justices dissenting: Scalia, White, Thomas, Rehnquist, C.J.
