74. West Point Grocery Co. v. City of Opelika, 354 U.S. 390 (1957).
          Ordinance of Opelika, Alabama, provided that a wholesale gro-
      cery business that delivers groceries in the city from points without
      the city must pay an annual privilege tax of $250. As applied to a Geor-
      gia corporation that solicits orders in the city and consummates pur-
      chases by deliveries originating in Georgia, the tax is invalid under
      the Commerce Clause.
             Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Frankfurter, Douglas, Burton, Clark, Harlan,
               Brennan, Whittaker
             Justice dissenting: Black

75. Lambert v. California, 355 U.S. 225 (1957).
          Los Angeles Municipal Code made it unlawful for a person who
      has been convicted of a crime punishable in California as a felony to
      remain in the city longer than five days without registering with the
      Chief of Police. Applied to a person who is not shown to have had ac-
      tual knowledge of his duty to register, this ordinance violates the Due
      Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution.
             Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Black, Douglas, Clark, Brennan
             Justices dissenting: Frankfurter, Burton, Harlan, Whittaker

76. Staub v. City of Baxley, 355 U.S. 313 (1958).
           Baxley, Georgia, made it an offense to “solicit” membership in any
      “organization, union or society” requiring the payment of “fees [or] dues”
      without first receiving a permit from the Mayor and Council. Issuance
      or refusal may occur after the character of the applicant, the nature
      of the organization in which memberships are to be solicited, and its
      effect upon the general welfare of the City have been considered. Ap-
      pellant had been convicted for soliciting memberships in a labor union
      without a license. The ordinance is void on its face because it makes
      enjoyment of freedom of speech contingent upon the will of the Mayor
      and City Council and thereby constitutes a prior restraint upon that
      freedom contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution.
             Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Douglas, Black, Burton, Harlan, Brennan,
               Whittaker
             Justices dissenting: Frankfurter, Clark

77. Smith v. California, 361 U.S. 147 (1959).
           A Los Angeles City ordinance making it unlawful for any book-
      seller to possess any obscene publication denies him freedom of press,
      as guaranteed by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amend-
      ment, when it is judicially construed to make him absolutely liable crimi-
      nally for mere possession of a book, later adjudged to be obscene, not-
