      gers traveling on other coaches, was void by reason of conflict with
      the terms of federal and Ohio acts adopted in relation to transfer and
      acceptance of said part of the road by Ohio.
              Justices concurring: Taney, C.J., Story, McLean, Wayne, Catron, McKinley, Nel-
                son
              Justice dissenting: Daniel

7. Sinnot v. Davenport, 63 U.S. (22 How.) 227 (1860).
           An Alabama statute requiring owners of steamboats navigating the
      waters of that state to register under the penalty of a $500 fine for
      each offense was in conflict with the act of Congress providing for the
      enrollment and license of vessels engaged in the coastwise trade and
      therefore inoperative.
           Accord: Foster v. Davenport, 63 U.S. (22 How.) 244 (1860), which
      held that this statute also was inoperative when applied to a lighter
      and a towboat assisting the movement wholly within Alabama territo-
      rial waters of vessels engaged in foreign and interstate commerce.

8. Van Allen v. The Assessors, 70 U.S. (3 Wall.) 573 (1866).
           A New York law authorizing localities to tax as personal property
      national bank stock held by residents, but which imposed no compa-
      rable tax on shares of state banks, violated federal legislation autho-
      rizing state taxation of national bank stock at rates no higher than
      those imposed on state bank shares. Taxation of the capital of state
      banks did not provide such equality, for that part of the capital of state
      banks invested in federal securities was exempt.
              Justices concurring: Grier, Davis, Nelson, Clifford, Miller, Field
              Justices dissenting: Chase, C.J., Wayne, Swayne

9. Accord: Bradley v. Illinois, 71 U.S. (4 Wall.) 459 (1867), voiding a similar
    Illinois tax law on the ground that a tax on the capital of state banks
    was not the equivalent of the state tax on shares of national banks and
    accordingly the tax on the latter was in conflict with federal law consent-
    ing to taxation of national bank shares at rates not in excess of those
    imposed on shares of state banks.

10. The Moses Taylor, 71 U.S. (4 Wall.) 411 (1867).
           A California statute vesting state courts with in rem jurisdiction
      over vessels for causes of action cognizable in admiralty invalidly in-
      fringed the admiralty jurisdiction exclusively conferred upon federal
      courts by ยง 9 of the Judiciary Act.
