              Justices dissenting: Stone, Hughes, C.J., McReynolds

85. Federal Land Bank v. Bismarck Lumber Co., 314 U.S. 95 (1941).
           Because the Federal Farm Loan Act exempts federal land banks
      from state taxes, other than those on property acquired in the course
      of dealings, the North Dakota sales tax cannot validly be collected on
      the sale of materials to a federal land bank to be used in improving
      real estate (Art. VI, cl. 2).

86. Cloverleaf Butter Co. v. Patterson, 315 U.S. 148 (1942).
           Consistently with the Supremacy Clause, federal laws and regula-
      tions relating to the entire process of manufacture of renovated butter
      supersede state laws under which Alabama officials inspected and seized
      packing stock butter acquired by a manufacturer of renovated butter
      for interstate commerce.
              Justices concurring: Roberts, Black, Reed, Douglas, Jackson
              Justices dissenting: Stone, C.J., Frankfurter, Murphy, Byrnes

87. Tulee v. Washington, 315 U.S. 681 (1942).
           Being repugnant to the terms of a treaty concluded with the Yakima
      Indians reserving to the members of the tribe the right to take fish at
      all usual places in common with the citizens of Washington Territory,
      a Washington law requiring such Indians to pay license fees for the
      exercise of such privilege cannot be enforced.

88. Pollock v. Williams, 322 U.S. 4 (1944).
          Florida Statute of 1941, §§ 817.09 and 817.10, made it a misde-
      meanor to induce advances with intent to defraud by a promise to per-
      form labor, and further made failure to perform labor for which money
      had been obtained prima facie evidence of intent to defraud. The stat-
      ute violates the Thirteenth Amendment and the Federal Antipeonage
      Act for it cannot be said that a plea of guilty is uninfluenced by the
      statute’s threat to convict by its prima facie evidence section.
              Justices concurring: Roberts, Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Murphy, Jackson,
                Rutledge
              Justices dissenting: Stone, C.J., Reed

89. Hill v. Florida ex rel. Watson, 325 U.S. 538 (1945).
           A Florida law providing that no one shall be licensed as a “busi-
      ness agent” of a labor union without meeting certain specified stan-
      dards and that all labor unions in the state must file annual reports
      disclosing certain information and pay an annual fee circumscribes the
      “full freedom” to choose collective bargaining agents secured to employ-
      ees by the National Labor Relations Act.
