94. Seaboard Air Line R.R. v. Daniel, 333 U.S. 118 (1948).
          A South Carolina law providing that any railroad line within the
      state must be owned and operated only by state-created corporations
      may not be applied to prevent a Virginia corporation, so authorized by
      the Interstate Commerce Commission under § 5 of the Interstate Com-
      merce Act, from owning and operating an entire railway system with
      mileage in South Carolina.

95. Takahashi v. Fish & Game Comm’n, 334 U.S. 410 (1948).
           California’s requirement that every person bringing fish ashore in
      the state for sale obtain a commercial fishing license, but denying such
      a license to any person ineligible for citizenship, precluded a resident
      Japanese alien from earning his living as a commercial fisherman in
      the ocean waters off the state and was invalid both under the Equal
      Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and under a federal
      statute (42 U.S.C. § 1981).
              Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge,
                Burton
              Justices dissenting: Reed, Jackson

96. La Crosse Tel. Corp. v. WERB, 336 U.S. 18 (1949).
           Certification by the state employment relations board under a Wis-
      consin labor relations act of a union as the collective bargaining repre-
      sentative of employees engaged in interstate commerce is invalid as
      in conflict with the National Labor Relations Act; the employer is in-
      valid as applied to deny utility employees the right to strike. As ap-
      plied, the law conflicts with the National Labor Relations Act.
              Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Black, Reed, Douglas, Jackson, Clark
              Justices dissenting: Frankfurter, Burton, Minton

97. H. P. Hood & Sons v. Du Mond, 336 U.S. 525 (1949).
           Denial of a license under the New York Agricultural and Market
      Law violated the Commerce Clause of the Constitution and the Fed-
      eral Agricultural Marketing Act where the denial was based on grounds
      that the expanded facilities would reduce the supply of milk for local
      markets and result in destructive competition in a market already ad-
      equately served.
              Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Reed, Douglas, Jackson, Burton
              Justices dissenting: Black, Frankfurter, Murphy, Rutledge

98. Wissner v. Wissner, 338 U.S. 655 (1950).
          The California community property law could not be invoked to
      sustain an award to a deceased soldier’s widow of one-half of the pro-
      ceeds of an insurance policy issued under the National Life Insurance
