79. Jennings v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 294 U.S. 216 (1935).
           Section of Indiana Bank Collection Code which purported to make
      the owners of paper which a bank had collected, but which it had not
      satisfied, preferred claimants in the event of the bank’s failure, regard-
      less of whether the funds representing such paper could be traced or
      identified as part of the bank’s assets or intermingled with or con-
      verted into other assets of the bank, was inoperative as to a national
      bank by reason of conflict with applicable federal law.

80. Accord: Old Company’s Lehigh v. Meeker Co., 294 U.S. 227 (1935), em-
    bracing a comparable New York statutory provision.

81. Schuylkill Trust Co. v. Pennsylvania, 296 U.S. 113 (1935).
           A Pennsylvania law that levied a tax on trust companies was in
      conflict with provisions of federal law proscribing discriminatory taxa-
      tion of national bank shares by virtue of deductions allowed trust com-
      pany for amounts represented by shares owned in Pennsylvania corpo-
      rations already taxed or exempted, without any corresponding deduction
      on account of nontaxable federal securities owned or on account of na-
      tional bank shares already taxed.
              Justices concurring: Roberts, Hughes, C.J., Van Devanter, Butler, McReynolds,
                Sutherland
              Justices dissenting: Cardozo, Brandeis, Stone

82. Oklahoma v. Barnsdall Corp., 296 U.S. 521 (1936).
          An Oklahoma law that levied a tax on the gross production of oil,
      as applied to oil produced by lessees of lands of Indian tribes, was not
      authorized by a federal law consenting to levy of a different tax, and
      hence was inoperative as a tax on a federal instrumentality.

83. Lawrence v. Shaw, 300 U.S. 345 (1937).
          A North Carolina property tax law could not be enforced so as to
      levy a tax on bank deposits made by petitioner as guardian of an in-
      competent veteran of World War I; by the terms of applicable federal
      law bank deposits which resulted from the receipt of federal veterans
      benefits payments were exempted from local taxation.

84. Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U.S. 52 (1941).
           A Pennsylvania alien registration statute, imposing requirements
      at variance with those set forth in the Federal Alien Registration Act
      of 1940 containing a comprehensive scheme for the regulation of aliens,
      is rendered unenforceable by reason of conflict with federal legislative
      and treaty-making powers.
              Justices concurring: Roberts, Black, Reed, Frankfurter, Douglas, Murphy
