             Justices concurring: Stone, C.J., Black, Reed, Douglas, Murphy, Jackson, Rutledge
             Justices dissenting: Roberts, Frankfurter

90. First Iowa Hydro-Electric Coop. v. FPC, 328 U.S. 152 (1946).
           An Iowa statute requiring a permit for construction of a dam in
      navigable waters is preempted to the extent that it purports to autho-
      rize a state veto of a hydro-electric project licensed by the Federal Power
      Commission pursuant to the Federal Power Act. While the Federal Power
      Act authorizes the Commission to require a licensee to comply with
      requirements of state law that are not inconsistent with federal pur-
      poses, these federal purposes may not be subordinated to state control
      through operation of the state permitting requirement.
             Justices concurring: Burton, Stone, C.J., Black, Reed, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge
             Justice dissenting: Frankfurter

91. Bethlehem Steel Co. v. New York Employment Relations Bd., 330 U.S.
    767 (1947).
           Where the National Labor Relations Board had asserted general
      jurisdiction over unions of foreman employed by industries subject to
      the National Labor Relations Act but had refused to certify such unions
      as collective bargaining representatives on the ground that to do so at
      the time would obstruct rather than further effectuation of the pur-
      poses of the Act, certification of such unions by the New York Employ-
      ment Relations Board under a state act is invalid as in conflict with
      the National Labor Relations Act and the Commerce Clause of the Con-
      stitution.

92. Accord: Plankington Packing Co. v. WERB, 338 U.S. 953 (1950).
           A decision of the Wisconsin Supreme Court upholding a similar
      action by the Wisconsin Employment Relations Board is summarily re-
      versed.

93. Rice v. Santa Fe Elevator Corp.,331 U.S. 218 (1947).
           By amendments of the United States Warehouse Act, Congress ter-
      minated the dual system of regulation and substituted an exclusive
      system of federal regulations of warehouses licensed under the federal
      act. Such warehouses therefore no longer need to obtain Illinois li-
      censes or comply with Illinois laws regulating those phases of the ware-
      house business which have been regulated under the federal act. Com-
      pliance with Illinois law is limited to those phases of the business that
      the federal act expressly subjects to state law.
             Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Black, Reed, Douglas, Murphy, Jackson, Burton
             Justices dissenting: Frankfurter, Rutledge
