      sive and precluded a right of recovery because of unseaworthiness predi-
      cated upon the death statute of Virginia, where the injury was sustained.

73. Baizley Iron Works v. Span, 281 U.S. 222 (1930).
           A Pennsylvania Workmen’s Compensation Act could not be in-
      voked to obtain recovery for injuries sustained by a workman while
      painting angle irons in the engine room of a ship tied to a pier in navi-
      gable waters; recovery was controlled exclusively by federal maritime
      law.
             Justices concurring: McReynolds, Sutherland, Butler, Van Devanter
             Justices dissenting: Stone, Holmes, Brandeis

74. Accord: Employers’ Liability Assurance Co. v. Cook, 281 U.S. 233 (1930).
          A Texas workman’s compensation law is inapplicable for the same
      reason.
             Justices concurring: McReynolds, Butler, Sutherland, Van Devanter, Stone
               (separately), Holmes (separately), Brandeis (separately)

75. Santovincenzo v. Egan, 284 U.S. 30 (1931).
          A New York law pertaining to the descent of property of an alien
      decedent was inoperative as to the property of an alien because of the
      conflicting provisions of a treaty negotiated with the nation to which
      the decedent owed allegiance.

76. Van Huffel v. Harkelrode, 284 U.S. 225 (1931).
          Federal bankruptcy courts are empowered to sell the real estate
      of bankrupts free from liens for state taxes; lien laws of Ohio stipulat-
      ing that the liens were to attach to the property were ineffective to
      prevent the federal court from transferring the liens from the prop-
      erty to the proceeds of the sale.

77. Henkel v. Chicago, St. P., M. & O. Ry., 284 U.S. 444 (1932).
           A Minnesota statute fixing amounts to be paid as compensation
      or in fees to expert witnesses could not be applied to determine costs
      in a federal court proceeding because the statute was superseded by a
      federal enactment determining the fees to be paid witnesses.

78. Murray v. Gerrick & Co., 291 U.S. 315 (1934).
          Washington Workman’s Compensation Act, adopted after the United
      States had acquired exclusive jurisdiction over a tract that became Puget
      Sound Navy Yard, could not be invoked by the widow and child of a
      worker fatally injured while working for a contractor in the Yard be-
      cause Congress by law had consented only to suits by a personal rep-
      resentative under the Washington Wrongful Death Statute.
