      of the Soldiers and Sailor’s Civil Relief Act of 1940 from imposing a
      tax on his tangible personal property temporarily located within its
      borders, even when the state of his domicile has not taxed such prop-
      erty.
             Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Reed, Frankfurter, Jackson, Burton, Clark,
               Minton
             Justices dissenting: Black, Douglas

105. Franklin Nat’l Bank v. New York, 347 U.S. 373 (1954).
          Insofar as the New York Banking Law forbids national banks to
      use the word “saving” or “savings in their business or advertising,” it
      conflicts with federal laws expressly authorizing national banks to re-
      ceive deposits and to exercise incidental powers and is void.
             Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Jackson, Burton,
               Clark, Minton
             Justice dissenting: Reed

106. Castle v. Hayes Freight Lines, 348 U.S. 61 (1954).
           An Illinois law providing for a 90-day suspension of a motor car-
      rier upon a finding of 10 or more violations of regulations calling for a
      balanced distribution of freight loads in relation to the truck’s axles
      cannot be applied to an interstate motor carrier holding a certificate
      of convenience and necessity issued by the Interstate Commerce Com-
      mission under the Federal Motor Carrier Act. A state may not sus-
      pend the carrier’s rights to use the state’s highways in its interstate
      operations. The Illinois law, as applied to such carrier, also violates
      the Commerce Clause.

107. Pennsylvania v. Nelson, 350 U.S. 497 (1956).
           The Smith Act, as amended, 18 U.S.C. § 2385, which prohibits the
      knowing advocacy of the overthrow of the Government of the United
      States by force and violence, supersedes the enforceability of the Penn-
      sylvania Sedition Act, which proscribes the same conduct. The scheme
      of federal regulation is so pervasive as to make reasonable the infer-
      ence that the Congress left no room for the states to supplement it—
      enforcement of state sedition acts presents a serious danger of conflict
      with the administration of the federal program.
             Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Clark, Harlan
             Justices dissenting: Reed, Burton, Minton

108. Railway Employes’ Dep’t v. Hanson, 351 U.S. 225 (1956).
          A “right to work” provision of the Nebraska Constitution cannot
      be invoked to invalidate a “union shop” agreement between an inter-
