      the substitution amounted to filing a new action, invocation of the Mas-
      sachusetts law was repugnant to the Federal Transportation Act’s pro-
      visions as to limitations.

59. First Nat’l Bank v. Anderson, 269 U.S. 341 (1926).
           As applied to national banks, an Iowa tax law providing for a
      levy on shares of such banks at rates less favorable than the rates
      applied to moneyed capital invested in competition with such banks
      was repugnant to federal law prohibiting such discrimination (Art.
      VI).

60. Oregon-Washington Co. v. Washington, 270 U.S. 87 (1926).
          Federal legislation having preempted the field, a Washington law
      that established a quarantine against importation of hay and alfalfa
      meal, except in sealed containers, coming from areas in other states
      harboring the alfalfa weevil, was inoperative.
             Justices concurring: Taft, C.J., Holmes, Van Devanter, Brandeis, Butler, Sanford,
               Stone
             Justices dissenting: McReynolds, Sutherland

61. Napier v. Atlantic Coast Line R.R.,272 U.S. 605 (1926).
           The Federal Boiler Inspection Act having occupied the field of regu-
      lation pertaining to locomotive equipment on interstate highways, a
      Georgia law requiring cab curtains and automatic fire box doors was
      preempted.

62. Missouri Pacific R.R. v. Porter, 273 U.S. 341 (1927).
           Congress’s having occupied the field by its own legislation, an
      Arkansas law that prohibited carriers from incorporating into their
      bills of lading stipulations exempting the carriers from liability for
      loss of shipments by fire not due to the carriers’ negligence was
      preempted.

63. First Nat’l Bank v. Hartford, 273 U.S. 548 (1927).
           Wisconsin tax law, as imposed on shares of a national bank, was
      in conflict with a federal law prohibiting state taxation of such shares
      at rates in excess of those levied on moneyed capital employed in com-
      petition with the business of such banks and was therefore inopera-
      tive as to the shares of such banks.
