54. Missouri ex rel. Burnes Nat’l Bank v. Duncan, 265 U.S. 17 (1924).
          Because the Federal Reserve Act authorizes national banks to act
      as executors, a Missouri law was ineffective, under the principle of na-
      tional supremacy, to withhold such powers from such banks.
             Justices concurring: Holmes, Sanford, Brandeis, McKenna, Van Devanter, Butler,
               Taft, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Sutherland, McReynolds

55. Asakura v. City of Seattle, 265 U.S. 332 (1924).
          A Seattle ordinance that limited the pawnbroking business to citi-
      zens was void as applied to a Japanese alien lawfully admitted into
      the United States and protected by a treaty with Japan according to
      nationals of the latter country the right to carry on a “trade.”

56. Missouri Pacific R.R. v. Stroud, 267 U.S. 404 (1925).
          When carrier had two routes by which freight might move be-
      tween two points in a state, the second of which was partly interstate,
      a suit against the carrier for discrimination in the furnishing of cars
      which arose out of use of the interstate route in conformity with the
      carrier’s practice was governed by the Interstate Commerce Act, and
      the Missouri law governing such discrimination was superseded and
      inapplicable (Art. VI).

57. Lancaster v. McCarty, 267 U.S. 427 (1925).
           A federal law (39 Stat. 441 (1916)) that authorized carriers to limit
      liability upon property received for transportation to value declared
      by shipper, where the rates were based on such value pursuant to au-
      thority of Interstate Commerce Commission, superseded Texas law in
      respect to a claim for damage to goods shipped intrastate between Texas
      points for the reason that the tariff and classification had been ad-
      opted by the carrier pursuant to an order of the Commission requir-
      ing it to remove discrimination against interstate commerce which had
      resulted from lower Texas intrastate rates.

58. Davis v. Cohen, 268 U.S. 638 (1925).
           When the Federal Transportation Act of 1920 provided that suits
      on claims arising out of federal wartime control of the railroads might
      be brought against a federal agent, if instituted within two years af-
      ter federal control had ended, Massachusetts law allowing amend-
      ments of proceedings prior to judgment, could not be invoked to sub-
      stitute the Agent as defendant more than two years after federal control
      had ended; the suit in which the substitution was attempted had erro-
      neously been filed against the railroad rather than against the Fed-
      eral Director General during the period of federal control, and since
