      applied to subject to local taxation an oil and gas lease and income
      therefrom derived by a Federal Land Bank from property acquired in
      satisfaction of a debt; under supervening federal law such Land Banks
      were exempted from all taxes “except taxes on real estate.”
              Justice concurring specially: Black

128. United States v. Union Central Life Ins. Co., 368 U.S. 291 (1961).
          A Michigan law regulating the manner in which a federal tax lien
      must be recorded was in conflict with applicable provisions of the In-
      ternal Revenue Code and therefore was ineffective for purposes of with-
      holding priority to the Government’s lien.
              Justices concurring: Black, Frankfurter, Brennan, Warren, C.J., Clark, Stewart,
                Whittaker, Harlan
              Justice dissenting: Douglas

129. Campbell v. Hussey, 368 U.S. 297 (1961).
          Congress having preempted the field by enactment of the Federal
      Tobacco Inspection Act establishing uniform standards for classifica-
      tion of tobacco, a Georgia law which required Type 14 tobacco grown
      in Georgia to be identified with a white tag could not be enforced.
              Justices concurring: Douglas, Whittaker (separately), Warren, C.J., Brennan,
                Stewart, Clark
              Justices dissenting: Black, Frankfurter, Harlan

130. Free v. Bland, 369 U.S. 663 (1962).
           Treasury regulations creating a right of survivorship in United States
      Savings Bonds preempted application of conflicting provisions of Texas
      Community Property Law which prohibited a married couple from tak-
      ing advantage of such survivorship regulations whenever the pur-
      chase price of said bonds was paid out of community property.

131. State Bd. of Ins. v. Todd Shipyards, 370 U.S. 451 (1962).
           A Texas law imposing a premium tax on insured parties who pur-
      chased insurance from insurers not licensed to sell insurance in Texas
      could not be collected, consistently with the Federal McCarran-
      Ferguson Act, on insurance contracts purchased in New York from a
      London insurer by the terms of which premiums thereon and claims
      thereunder were payable in New York.
              Justices concurring: Douglas, Brennan, Warren, C.J., Stewart, Harlan, Clark
              Justice dissenting: Black

132. Lassiter v. United States, 371 U.S. 10 (1962).
           Louisiana laws that segregated passengers in terminal facilities
      of common carriers were unconstitutional by reason of conflict with
      federal law and the Equal Protection Clause.
