133. United States v. Buffalo Savings Bank, 371 U.S. 228 (1963).
           A New York law that provided that payments out of proceeds of a
      foreclosure of property to discharge state tax liens should be deemed
      “expenses” of the mortgage foreclosure sale was ineffective to defeat
      priority accorded by federal law to federal tax liens antedating liens
      for state and local real property taxes and assessments.
              Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Black, Brennan, Stewart, Goldberg, Harlan,
                Clark, White
              Justice dissenting: Douglas

134. Paul v. United States, 371 U.S. 245 (1963).
           A California statute that authorized the fixing of minimum whole-
      sale and retail prices for milk could not be enforced as to purchases of
      milk for military consumption or for resale at commissaries at federal
      military installations in California; conflicting federal statutes and regu-
      lations governing procurement with appropriated funds of goods for
      the Armed Forces required competitive bidding or negotiation reflect-
      ing active competition which would be nullified by minimum prices de-
      termined by factors not specified in federal law.
              Justices concurring: Douglas, Black, Warren, C.J., White, Brennan, Clark
              Justices dissenting: Stewart, Harlan, Goldberg

135. Michigan Nat’l Bank v. Robertson, 372 U.S. 591 (1963).
          Suability of an out-of-state national bank in courts of Nebraska is
      determined by applicable provisions of the federal banking laws and
      not by recourse to a Nebraska statute defining the venue of local ac-
      tions involving liability under the Nebraska Installment Loan Act.
              Justices concurring: Black (separately), Douglas (separately)

136. Accord: Mercantile Nat’l Bank v. Langdeau, 371 U.S. 555 (1963), as to
    venue in Texas.
              Justices concurring: White, Stewart, Brennan, Warren, C.J., Goldberg
              Justices dissenting: Harlan, Douglas, Black

137. Sperry v. Florida, 373 U.S. 379 (1963).
           A Florida law regulating admission to the bar could not be en-
      forced, consistently with the principle of national supremacy, to pre-
      vent a person admitted to practice before the United States Patent Of-
      fice as a Patent Attorney from serving clients in the latter capacity in
      Florida.

138. Bus Employees v. Missouri, 374 U.S. 74 (1963).
          Missouri’s King-Thompson Act, which authorized the governor to
      seize and operate a public utility when the public welfare was jeopar-
