      dized by a strike threat, was inconsistent with 29 U.S.C. § 157 of the
      National Labor Relations Act defining the rights of employees as to
      collective bargaining and, consistently with national supremacy, could
      not be enforced.

139. Corbett v. Stergios, 381 U.S. 124 (1965).
          Iowa’s reciprocal inheritance law conditioning the right of nonresi-
      dent aliens to take Iowa real property by intestate succession upon
      existence of a reciprocal right of United States citizens to take real
      property upon same terms and conditions in alien’s country could not
      under United States-Greece treaty and Supremacy Clause bar Greek
      national from inheriting property.

140. Nash v. Florida Industrial Comm’n, 389 U.S. 235 (1967).
           A Florida unemployment compensation law disqualifying for ben-
      efits any person unemployed as a result of a labor dispute when ap-
      plied to disqualify a person who has filed an unfair labor practice charge
      against her employer because of her discharge conflicts with federal
      labor law and is void under Supremacy Clause.

141. Rosado v. Wyman, 397 U.S. 397 (1970).
           A New York statute changing levels of benefits and deleting items
      to be included in levels of benefit which reduced moneys to recipients
      conflicted with federal law which required states to adjust upward in
      terms of increases costs of living amounts deemed necessary for sub-
      sistence.
             Justices concurring: Harlan, Douglas, Brennan, Stewart, White, Marshall
             Justices dissenting: Black, Burger, C.J.

142. Lewis v. Martin, 397 U.S. 552 (1970).
          A California statute reducing the amount of dependent children
      funds going to any household by the amount of funds imputed to pres-
      ence of a “man-in-the-house” who was not legally obligated to support
      the child or children conflicts with federal law as interpreted by valid
      HEW regulations.
             Justices concurring: Douglas, Harlan, Brennan, Stewart, White, Marshall
             Justices dissenting: Burger, C.J., Black

143. California Dep’t of Human Resources Dev. v. Java, 402 U.S. 121 (1971).
          A California statute providing for suspension of unemployment com-
      pensation if the former employer appeals an eligibility decision of a
      departmental examiner, the suspension to last until decision of the ap-
      peal, conflicts with the federal act’s requirement that compensation must
      be paid when due.
