157. Dothard v. Rawlinson, 433 U.S. 321 (1977).
          Alabama statutory height and weight requirements for prison guards
      have an impermissible discriminatory effect upon women, and under
      the Supremacy Clause must yield to the federal fair employment law.
              Justices concurring: Stewart, Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, Powell, Rehnquist,
                Stevens, Burger, C.J.
              Justice dissenting: White

158. Maher v. Buckner, 434 U.S. 898 (1977).
           A Connecticut statutory rule rendering ineligible for welfare ben-
      efits individuals who have transferred assets within seven years of ap-
      plying for benefits unless they can prove the transfer was made for
      “reasonable consideration” is inconsistent with the Social Security Act
      and therefore void.

159. Ray v. Atlantic Richfield Co., 435 U.S. 151 (1978).
           Certain provisions of a Washington statute imposing design or safety
      standards on oil tankers using state waters and banning operation in
      those waters of tankers exceeding certain weights, as well as certain
      pilotage requirements, are invalid as conflicting with federal law.
              Justices concurring: Ginsburg, Kennedy, Souter, Breyer, Rehnquist, C.J.
              Justices concurring specially: O’Connor, Thomas
              Justice dissenting: Stevens

160. Hisquierdo v. Hisquierdo, 439 U.S. 572 (1979).
          California’s community property statute, under which property ac-
      quired during the marriage by either spouse belongs to both, may not
      be applied to award a divorced spouse an interest in the other spouse’s
      pension benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act, because the act
      precludes subjecting benefits to any legal process to deprive recipi-
      ents.
              Justices concurring: Blackmun, Brennan, White, Marshall, Powell, Stevens,
                Burger, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Stewart, Rehnquist

161. Miller v. Youakim, 440 U.S. 125 (1979).
           An Illinois law differentiating between children who reside in fos-
      ter homes with relatives and those who do not reside with relatives
      and giving the latter greater benefits than the former conflicts with
      federal law, which requires the same benefits be provided regardless
      of whether the foster home is operated by a relative.

162. Arizona Pub. Serv. Co. v. Snead, 441 U.S. 141 (1979).
          Arizona’s imposition of tax upon electricity produced in state and
      sold outside the state, which is not offset against other taxes as is the
