      case with electricity sold within state, violates a federal statute prohib-
      iting any state from taxing the generation or transmission of electric-
      ity in a manner that discriminates against out-of-state consumers, and
      thus is unenforceable.

163. California Retail Liquor Dealers Ass’n v. Midcal Aluminum, 445 U.S.
    97 (1980).
           A California statute requiring all wine producers and wholesalers
      to file fair trade contracts or price schedules with the state and to fol-
      low the price lists is a resale price maintenance scheme that violates
      the Sherman Act.

164. Ventura County v. Gulf Oil Corp., 445 U.S. 947 (1980).
           Ventura County, California zoning ordinances governing oil explo-
      ration and extraction activities cannot be applied to a company which
      holds a lease from the United States Government because federal law
      preempts the field.

165. Washington v. Confederated Colville Tribes,447 U.S. 134 (1980).
           Imposition of a Washington State motor vehicle excise tax and mo-
      bile home, camper, and trailer taxes on vehicles owned by the Tribe or
      its members and used both on and off the reservation violates federal
      law and cannot stand under the Supremacy Clause.
              Justices concurring: White, Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, Powell, Stevens,
                Burger, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Stewart, Rehnquist

166. White Mountain Apache Tribe v. Bracker, 448 U.S. 136 (1980).
          Imposition of Arizona’s motor carrier license tax and use fuel tax
      on a non-Indian enterprise authorized to do business in Arizona but
      operating entirely on reservation conflicts with federal law and cannot
      stand under the Supremacy Clause.
              Justices concurring: Marshall, Brennan, White, Blackmun, Powell, Burger, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Stevens, Stewart, Rehnquist

167. Central Machinery Co. v. Arizona Tax Comm’n, 448 U.S. 160 (1980).
            Arizona’s imposition of tax upon on-reservation sale of farm ma-
      chinery to Indian tribe by non-Indian, off-reservation enterprise con-
      flicts with federal law and is invalid under the Supremacy Clause.
              Justices concurring: Marshall, Brennan, White, Blackmun, Burger, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Stewart, Powell, Rehnquist, Stevens

168. Chicago & N.W. Transp. Co. v. Kalo Brick & Tile Co., 450 U.S. 311 (1981).
          An Iowa statute subjecting to damages a common carrier who aban-
      dons service and thereby injures shippers is preempted by the Inter-
