      state railroad and unions of its employees for the reason that such
      “union shop” agreement is expressly authorized by § 2(11) of the Rail-
      way Labor Act.

109. Leslie Miller, Inc. v. Arkansas, 352 U.S. 187 (1956).
           An Arkansas statute requiring licensing of contractors cannot be
      applied to a federal contractor operating pursuant to a contract issued
      under authority of the Armed Services Procurement Act of 1947.

110. Guss v. Utah Labor Bd., 353 U.S. 1 (1957).
           The Utah Labor Board, acting pursuant to Utah law, may not ex-
      ercise jurisdiction over a labor dispute involving an employer engaged
      in interstate commerce if the NLRB declined to exercise jurisdiction
      and had not ceded jurisdiction to the state board pursuant to § 10(a)
      of the National Labor Relations Act.
              Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Harlan, Bren-
                nan
              Justices dissenting: Burton, Clark

111. Public Util. Comm’n v. United States, 355 U.S. 534 (1958).
           A California statute making contingent upon prior approval by its
      Public Utilities Commission of the Federal Government’s practice, sanc-
      tioned by federal procurement law, of negotiating special rates with
      carriers for the transportation of federal property in California is void
      as conflicting with the federal practices.
              Justices concurring: Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Clark, Brennan, Whittaker
              Justices dissenting: Warren, C.J., Burton, Harlan

112. City of Chicago v. Atchison, T. & S.F. Ry., 357 U.S. 77 (1958).
           As applied to a newly organized motor carrier hired by interstate
      railroads operating in and out of Chicago to transfer interstate passen-
      gers and their baggage between different railway terminals in that City,
      the provision in the Chicago Municipal Code requiring any new trans-
      fer service to obtain a certificate of convenience and necessity plus ap-
      proval of the City Council is unconstitutional. Chicago has no power
      to decide whether the new motor carrier can operate a service which
      is an integral part of interstate railway transportation subject to regu-
      lations under the Federal Interstate Commerce Act.
              Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Black, Douglas, Clark, Brennan, Whittaker
              Justices dissenting: Frankfurter, Burton, Harlan

113. Teamsters Union v. Oliver, 358 U.S. 283 (1959).
           An Ohio antitrust law cannot be invoked to prohibit enforcement
      of a collective bargaining agreement between a group of interstate mo-
