208. Boyle v. United Technologies Corp., 487 U.S. 500 (1988).
           Virginia tort law governing product design defects is preempted
      by federal common law as applied to suits against government contrac-
      tors for damages resulting from design defects in military equipment
      if the equipment conformed to reasonably precise specifications and if
      the contractor warned the government of known dangers.
             Justices concurring: Scalia, White, O’Connor, Kennedy, Rehnquist, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, Stevens

209. Bonito Boats, Inc. v. Thunder Craft Boats, Inc., 489 U.S. 141 (1989).
           A Florida statute prohibiting the use of the direct molding pro-
      cess to duplicate unpatented boat hulls, and creating a cause of action
      in favor of the original manufacturer, is preempted by federal patent
      law as conflicting with the balance Congress has struck between pat-
      ent protection and free trade in industrial design.

210. Davis v. Michigan Dep’t of Treasury, 489 U.S. 803 (1989).
          Michigan’s income tax law, by providing exemption for retirement
      benefits of state employees but not for retirement benefits of Federal
      employees, discriminates against federal employees in violation of 4
      U.S.C. § 111 and in violation of the constitutional doctrine of intergov-
      ernmental tax immunity.
             Justices concurring: Kennedy, Brennan, White, Marshall, Blackmun, O’Connor,
               Scalia, Rehnquist, C.J.
             Justice dissenting: Stevens

211. FMC Corp. v. Holliday, 498 U.S. 52 (1990).
           A provision of Pennsylvania’s motor vehicle financial responsibil-
      ity law prohibiting subrogation and reimbursement from a claimant’s
      tort recovery for benefits received from a self-insured health care plan
      is preempted by ERISA as “relat[ing] to [an] employee benefit plan.”
             Justices concurring: O’Connor, White, Marshall, Blackmun, Scalia, Kennedy,
               Rehnquist, C.J.
             Justice dissenting: Stevens

212. Ingersoll-Rand Co. v. McClendon, 498 U.S. 133 (1990).
           A Texas common law claim that an employee was wrongfully dis-
      charged to prevent his attainment of benefits under a plan covered by
      ERISA is preempted as a “State law” that “relates to” a covered ben-
      efit plan. The state cause of action also “conflicts directly” with an ex-
      clusive ERISA cause of action.
