              Justices concurring: Blackmun, White, Stevens, O’Connor, Rehnquist, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Kennedy, Scalia, Souter, Thomas

219. American Airlines, Inc. v. Wolens, 513 U.S. 219 (1995).
           The Illinois Consumer Fraud Act, to the extent that it authorizes
      actions in state court challenging as “unfair or deceptive” marketing
      practices an airline company’s changes in its frequent flyer program,
      is preempted by the Airline Deregulation Act, which prohibits states
      from “enact[ing] or enforc[ing] any law . . . relating to [air carrier] rates,
      routes, or services.”
              Justices concurring: Ginsburg, Kennedy, Souter, Breyer, Rehnquist, C.J.
              Justices concurring specially: O’Connor, Thomas
              Justice dissenting: Stevens

220. Oklahoma Tax Comm’n v. Chickasaw Nation, 515 U.S. 450 (1995).
          Oklahoma may not impose its motor fuels excise tax upon fuel sold
      by Chickasaw Nation retail stores on tribal trust land. The legal inci-
      dence of the motor fuels tax falls on the retailer, located within In-
      dian country, and the petitioner did not properly raise the issue of whether
      Congress had authorized such taxation in the Hayden-Cartwright Act.

221. Barnett Bank of Marion County v. Nelson, 517 U.S. 25 (1996).
          A federal law empowering national banks in small towns to sell
      insurance (12 U.S.C. § 92) preempts a Florida law prohibiting banks
      from dealing in insurance. The federal law contains no explicit state-
      ment of preemption, but preemption is implicit because the state law
      stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment of one of the federal law’s
      purposes.

222. Doctor’s Associates, Inc. v. Casarotto, 517 U.S. 681 (1996).
           A Montana law declaring an arbitration clause unenforceable un-
      less notice that the contract is subject to arbitration appears in under-
      lined capital letters on the first page of the contract is preempted by
      the Federal Arbitration Act.
              Justices concurring: Ginsburg, Stevens, O’Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Souter, Breyer,
                Rehnquist, C.J.
              Justice dissenting: Thomas

223. Foster v. Love, 522 U.S. 67 (1997).
          A Louisiana statute that provides for an “open primary” in Octo-
      ber for election of Members of Congress and that provides that any
      candidate receiving a majority of the vote in that primary “is elected,”
      conflicts with the federal law, 2 U.S.C. §§ 1 and 7, that provides for a
      uniform federal election day in November, and is void to the extent of
