239. Wos v. E.M.A., 568 U.S. ___, No. 12–98, slip op. (2013).
           North Carolina law on reimbursing the cost of state-funded medi-
      cal treatment which presumed what portion of a tort case settlement
      arising from both medical and nonmedical claims could be attributed
      to medical claims held preempted by federal Medicaid statute’s anti-
      lien provision, 42 U.S.C. §1396p(a)(1). Where settlement of birth in-
      jury medical malpractice claim did not allocate money between medi-
      cal and nonmedical claims, state law’s irrebutable presumption that
      up to one-third of all damages recovered could be allocated to medical
      expenses is preempted by requirement that only that portion of a judg-
      ment or settlement “designated as payments for medical care” could
      be recovered.
              Justices concurring: Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, Alito, Sotomayor, Kagan
              Justices dissenting: Roberts, C.J., Scalia, Thomas

240. Arizona v. Inter Tribal Council of Arizona, 570 U.S. ___, No. 12–71, slip
    op. (2013).
           Arizona law requiring proof of citizenship in order to register to
      vote preempted by the National Voter Registration Act (NVRA). NVRA
      requires states to establish uniform voter registration procedures for
      federal elections when applying for a driver’s license, and when regis-
      tering by mail or in person at certain state and local public offices.
      Court held that Arizona’s documentary proof of citizenship require-
      ment is preempted by the NVRA’s mandate that states “accept and
      use” a specified federal form, which implies that the federal form is to
      be considered sufficient without additional documentation. Rejected ar-
      gument that traditional doctrine of presumption against preemption
      applies, as the Elections Clause of the Constitution, Article I, § 4, specfi-
      cally confers upon Congress the power to alter state regulations regard-
      ing the “Times, Places and Manner” of holding federal elections.
              Justices concurring: Scalia, Roberts, C.J., Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor, Kagan
              Justices dissenting: Thomas, Alito

241. Hillman v. Maretta, 569 U.S. ___, No. 11–1221, slip op. (2013)
           Virginia law that revokes a death benefit beneficiary designation
      to a spouse in the event of a divorce also provides that, if such revoca-
      tion is preempted by federal law, the person who would have benefit-
      ted from the revoked designation has a cause of action against the for-
      mer spouse. The Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance Act of 1954
      (FEGLIA), which establishes an insurance program for federal employ-
      ees, permits an employee to name a beneficiary of life insurance pro-
      ceeds. Congress’s purpose in passing this provision was to establish a
      clear and predictable procedure for an employee to indicate who the
      intended beneficiary of his life insurance shall be, and this purpose is
