235. PLIVA Inc. v. Mensing, 564 U.S. ___, No. 09–993 (2011).
           Louisiana statute which provides for liability where a manufac-
      turer has a duty to warn of a products is preempted by federal label-
      ing requirements, despite the fact that the manufacturer of a generic
      drug could have sought assistance from the Food and Drug Adminis-
      tration to convince manufacturers of the brand-name equivalent drug
      to change their labeling, allowing the generic manufacturer to follow
      suit.
              Justices concurring: Thomas, Roberts, C.J., Scalia, Alito
              Justice concurring in all but Part III–B–2: Kennedy
              Justices dissenting: Sotomayor, Ginsburg, Breyer, Kagan

236. National Meat Ass’n v. Harris, 565 U.S. ___, No. 10–224, slip op. (2012).
           California state statute dictating what slaughterhouses must do
      with pigs that cannot walk preempted by provision of the Federal Meat
      Inspection Act (FMIA) expressly preempting state requirements that
      are in addition to, or different than, those made under the FMIA, where
      FMIA is more permissive.

237. Kurns v. Railroad Friction Products Corp., 565 U.S. ___, No. 10–879,
    slip op. (2012).
            Pennsylvania state-law tort claim by the estate of maintenance en-
       gineer alleging defective design of locomotive components and failure to
       warn of attendant dangers held preempted by the Locomotive Inspec-
       tion Act, where purpose of the Act was found to be regulation of locomo-
       tive equipment generally and not limited to regulation of activities of lo-
       comotive operators or use of locomotives while engaged in transportation.
              Justices concurring: Thomas, Roberts, C.J., Scalia, Kennedy, Alito, Kagan
              Justices dissenting in part: Sotomayor, Ginsburg, Breyer

238. Arizona v. United States, 567 U.S. ___, No. 11–182, slip op. (2012).
           Arizona state penalties for violating federal alien registration re-
      quirements held preempted by federal law that occupied the field; state
      sanctions against unauthorized aliens seeking employment or work-
      ing held preempted by comprehensive system of federal employer sanc-
      tions that eschewed employee sanctions; state authority for police ar-
      rests of individuals believed to be deportable on criminal grounds held
      preempted as upsetting careful policy balance struck by Congress; state
      policy of checking immigration status of individuals stopped by police
      during ordinary course of state law enforcement activities held not to
      be preempted on its face because federal law contemplated and facili-
      tated status checks.
              Justices concurring: Kennedy, Roberts, C.J., Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor
              Justices dissenting in part: Scalia, Thomas, Alito
