              Justices concurring: Harlan, Gray, Brown, Shiras, White, McKenna, Peckham
              Justices dissenting: Brewer, Fuller, C.J.

144. Norwood v. Baker, 172 U.S. 269 (1898).
           The exaction, as authorized by Ohio law, from the owner of prop-
      erty, via special assessment, of the cost of a public improvement in
      substantial excess of the benefits accruing to him amounted to a tak-
      ing of property for public use without compensation, and violated due
      process.
              Justices concurring: Harlan, Brown, White, Peckham, McKenna, Fuller, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Brewer, Gray, Shiras

145. Dewey v. City of Des Moines, 173 U.S. 193 (1899).
          An Iowa statute deprived a nonresident owner of property in Iowa
      of due process by subjecting him to personal liability to pay a special
      assessment when the state did not acquire personal jurisdiction via
      service of process.

146. Lake Shore & Mich. So. Ry. v. Smith, 173 U.S. 684 (1899).
           A Michigan act that required railroads to sell 1,000-mile tickets
      at a fixed price in favor of the purchaser, his wife, and children, with
      provisions for forfeiture if presented by any other person in payment
      of fare, and for expiration within two years, subject to redemption of
      unused portion and collection of 3 cents per mile already traveled, ef-
      fected a taking of property without due process and a denial of equal
      protection.
              Justices concurring: Peckham, Harlan, Brewer, Brown, Shiras, White
              Justices dissenting: Fuller, C.J., Gray, McKenna

147. Houston & Texas Cent. R.R. v. Texas, 177 U.S. 66 (1900).
          Subsequent repeal of a Texas statute that permitted treasury war-
      rants to be given to the state for payment of interest on bonds issued
      by a railroad and held by the state, with accompanying endeavor to
      hold the railroad liable for back interest paid on the warrants, im-
      paired the obligation of contract.

148. Cleveland, C.C. & St. L. Ry. v. Illinois, 177 U.S. 514 (1900).
           An Illinois law that required all regular passenger trains to stop
      at county seats for receipt and discharge of passengers imposed an in-
      valid burden on interstate commerce when applied to an express train
      serving only through passengers between New York and St. Louis.
