             Justices concurring: Brown, Harlan, Brewer, Peckham, McKenna, Day
             Justices dissenting: Holmes, White, Fuller, C.J.

162. Houston & Texas Central R.R. v. Mayes, 201 U.S. 321 (1906).
          A Texas statute exacting of an interstate railroad an absolute re-
      quirement that it furnish a certain number of cars on a given day to
      transport merchandise to another state imposed an invalid, unreason-
      able burden on interstate commerce.
             Justices concurring: Brewer, Brown, Peckham, Holmes, Day
             Justices dissenting: Harlan, McKenna, Fuller, C.J.

163. Powers v. Detroit & Grand Haven Ry., 201 U.S. 543 (1906).
          When a railroad is reorganized under a special act but no new
      corporation is chartered, a tax concession granted by such act amounted
      to a contract that could not be impaired by a subsequent Michigan
      enactment that purported to alter the rate of the tax.
             Justices concurring: Brewer, Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, Holmes, Day,
               Fuller, C.J.
             Justice dissenting: White

164. Mayor of Vicksburg v. Vicksburg Waterworks Co., 202 U.S. 453 (1906).
          A water company owning an exclusive franchise to supply a city
      with water was entitled to an injunction restraining impairment of such
      contract by attempted erection by city of its own water system pursu-
      ant to Mississippi statutory authorization.
             Justices concurring: Day, Brewer, Brown, White, Peckham, McKenna, Holmes,
               Fuller, C.J.
             Justice dissenting: Harlan

165. American Smelting Co. v. Colorado, 204 U.S. 103 (1907).
           A Colorado statute stipulating that foreign corporations, as a con-
      dition for admission to do business, pay a fee based on their capital
      stock whereupon they would be subjected to all the liabilities and re-
      strictions imposed upon domestic corporations amounted to a con-
      tract, the obligation of which was invalidly impaired by a later stat-
      ute that imposed higher annual license fees on foreign corporations
      admitted under the preceding terms than were levied on domestic cor-
      porations, whose corporate existence had not expired.
             Justices concurring: Peckham, Brewer, White, McKenna, Day
             Justices dissenting: Harlan, Holmes, Moody, Fuller, C.J.

166. Adams Express Co. v. Kentucky, 206 U.S. 129 (1907).
          A Kentucky law proscribing C.O.D. shipments of liquor, providing
      that the place where the money is paid or the goods delivered shall be
