STATE CONSTITUTIONAL AND STATUTORY PROVI-
   SIONS AND MUNICIPAL ORDINANCES HELD UN-
   CONSTITUTIONAL OR HELD TO BE PREEMPTED
   BY FEDERAL LAW
     Three separate lists of Supreme Court decisions appear below: part I
lists cases holding state constitutional or statutory provisions unconstitu-
tional, part II lists cases holding local laws unconstitutional, and part III
lists cases holding that state or local laws are preempted by federal law.
As Congress acted as the legislature for the District of Columbia until
passage of the Home Rule Act on December 24, 1973, District of Columbia
statutes that were enacted by Congress are treated as federal statutes
(and included in a prior appendix), and District of Columbia statutes en-
acted by the District of Columbia government are treated as state stat-
utes.
     Each case is briefly summarized, and the votes of Justices are indi-
cated unless the Court’s decision was unanimous. Justices who write or
join the majority or plurality opinion are listed under “Justices concur-
ring”, whether or not they write separate concurring opinions, and Jus-
tices who do not join the majority or plurality opinion, but write separate
opinions concurring in the result, are listed under “Justices specially con-
curring.”
     Previous editions contained only two lists, one for cases holding state
laws unconstitutional or preempted by federal law, and one for unconsti-
tutional or preempted local laws. The 2002 edition added the third cat-
egory because of the different nature of preemption cases. State or local
laws held to be preempted by federal law are void not because they con-
travene any provision of the Constitution, but rather because they conflict
with a federal statute or treaty, and through operation of the Supremacy
Clause. Preemption cases formerly listed in one of the first two categories
have been moved to the third. A few cases with multiple holdings are
listed in more than one category.

          I. STATE LAWS HELD UNCONSTITUTIONAL
1. United States v. Peters, 9 U.S. (5 Cr.) 115 (1809).
          A Pennsylvania statute prohibiting the execution of any process
      issued to enforce a certain sentence of a federal court, on the ground
      that the federal court lacked jurisdiction in the cause, could not oust
      the federal court of jurisdiction. A state statute purporting to annul
      the judgment of a court of the United States and to destroy rights ac-
      quired thereunder is without legal foundation.
