             Justices concurring: Holmes, Brewer, White, Peckham, Day, Fuller, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: McKenna, Harlan, Moody

173. Nielson v. Oregon, 212 U.S. 315 (1909).
           For want of jurisdiction, Oregon could not validly prosecute as a
      violator of its law prohibiting the use of purse nets one who, pursuant
      to a license from Washington, used such a net on the Washington side
      of the Columbia River.

174. Adams Express Co. v. Kentucky, 214 U.S. 218 (1909).
           A Kentucky law proscribing the sale of liquor to an inebriate, as
      applied to a carrier delivering liquor to such person from another state,
      violated the Commerce Clause.
             Justices concurring: Brewer, Holmes, Peckham, Moody, White, Day, McKenna,
               Fuller, C.J.
             Justice dissenting: Harlan

175. Louisiana ex rel. Hubert v. Mayor of New Orleans, 215 U.S. 170 (1909).
           A Louisiana act of 1870 providing for registration and collection
      of judgments against New Orleans, so far as it delayed payment, or
      collection of taxes for payment, of contract claims existing before its
      passage, impaired the obligation of such contracts.

176. North Dakota ex rel. Flaherty v. Hanson, 215 U.S. 515 (1910).
           A North Dakota statute that required the recipient of a federal
      retail liquor license, solely because of payment therefor and without
      reference to the doing of any act within North Dakota, to publish offi-
      cial notices of the terms of such license and of the place where it is
      posted, to display on his premises an affidavit confirming such publi-
      cation, and to file an authenticated copy of such federal license to-
      gether with a $10 fee, was void for imposing a burden on the federal
      taxing power.
             Justices concurring: White, Harlan, Brewer, Day
             Justices dissenting: Fuller, C.J., McKenna, Holmes

177. Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U.S. 1 (1910).
          A Kansas statute imposing a charter fee, computed as a percent-
      age of authorized capital stock, on corporations for the privilege of do-
      ing business in Kansas, could not validly be collected from a foreign
      corporation engaged in interstate commerce, and also violated due pro-
      cess insofar as it was imposed on property, part of which was located
      beyond the limits of that state.
             Justices concurring: Harlan, Brewer, White (separately), Day, Moody
             Justices dissenting: Holmes, McKenna, Peckham, Fuller, C.J.
