178. Ludwig v. Western Union Tel. Co., 216 U.S. 146 (1910).
           An Arkansas law that required a foreign corporation engaged in
      interstate commerce to pay, as a license fee for doing an intrastate
      business, a given amount of its entire capital stock, whether employed
      in Arkansas or elsewhere, was void by reason of imposing a burden on
      interstate commerce and embracing property outside the jurisdiction
      of the state.
             Justices concurring: Harlan, Moody, Lurton, White, Day, Brewer
             Justices dissenting: Fuller, C.J., McKenna, Holmes

179. Southern Ry. v. Greene, 216 U.S. 400 (1910).
           An Alabama law that imposed on foreign corporations already ad-
      mitted to do business an additional franchise or privilege tax not lev-
      ied on domestic corporations denied the foreign corporations equal pro-
      tection of the laws.
             Justices concurring: Day, Harlan, Brewer, White
             Justices dissenting: Fuller, C.J., McKenna, Holmes

180. International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U.S. 91 (1910).
           A Kansas law that imposed upon foreign corporations engaged in in-
      terstate commerce, as a condition for admission and retention of the right
      to do business in that state, procurement of a license and submission of
      an annual financial statement, and that prohibited such foreign corpo-
      rations from filing actions in Kansas courts unless such conditions were
      met, imposed an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce.
             Justices concurring: Harlan, White, Holmes, Day, Lurton
             Justices dissenting: Fuller, C.J., McKenna

181. St. Louis S.W. Ry. v. Arkansas, 217 U.S. 136 (1910).
           An Arkansas law, and a commission order issued under it, that
      required an interstate carrier, upon application of a local shipper, to
      deliver promptly the number of freight cars requested for loading
      purposes and that, without regard to the effect of such demand on
      its interstate traffic, exposed it to severe penalties for noncompli-
      ance, imposed an invalid, unreasonable burden on interstate com-
      merce. The rules of the American Railway Association as to avail-
      ability of a member carrier’s cars for interstate shipments being a
      matter of federal regulation, it was beyond the power of a state
      court to pass on their sufficiency.
             Justices concurring: White, Harlan, McKenna, Holmes, Day, Lurton
             Justices dissenting: Fuller, C.J.
