182. Missouri Pacific Ry. v. Nebraska, 217 U.S. 196 (1910).
          A Nebraska law compelling railroad, at its own expense, and upon
      request of grain elevator operators, to install switches connecting such
      elevators with its right of way, deprived the carrier of property with-
      out due process of law.
             Justices concurring: Holmes, White, Day, Lurton, Fuller, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Harlan, McKenna

183. Dozier v. Alabama, 218 U.S. 124 (1910).
           An Alabama law that imposed a license tax on agents not having
      a permanent place of business in that state and soliciting orders for
      the purchase and delivery of pictures and frames manufactured in, and
      delivered from, another state, with the title remaining in the vendor
      until the agent collected the purchase price, imposed an invalid bur-
      den on interstate commercial transactions.

184. Herndon v. Chicago, R.I. & P. Ry., 218 U.S. 135 (1910).
          When a railroad already has provided adequate accommodations
      at any point, a Missouri regulation that required interstate trains
      to stop at such point imposed an invalid, unreasonable burden on
      interstate commerce. Also, a Missouri law that forfeited the right of
      an admitted foreign carrier to do a local business upon its institut-
      ing a right of action in a federal court imposed an unconstitutional
      condition.

185. Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U.S. 219 (1911).
           An Alabama law that made a refusal to perform labor contracted
      for, without return of money or property advanced under the contract,
      prima facie evidence of fraud and that was enforced under local rules
      of evidence that precluded one accused of such fraud from testifying
      as to uncommunicated motives, was an invalid peonage law pro-
      scribed by the Thirteenth Amendment.
             Justices concurring: Hughes, Lamar, Harlan, Day, Van Devanter, McKenna,
               White, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Holmes, Lurton

186. Oklahoma v. Kansas Natural Gas Co.,221 U.S. 229 (1911).
           An Oklahoma law that withheld from foreign corporations en-
      gaged in interstate commerce a privilege afforded domestic corpora-
      tions engaged in local commerce, namely, of building pipe lines across
      its highways and transporting to points outside its boundaries natu-
      ral gas extracted and reduced to possession therein, was invalid as a
      restraint on interstate commerce and as a deprivation of property with-
      out due process of law.
