210. United States v. Reynolds, 235 U.S. 133 (1914).
           An Alabama law that permitted a person convicted of an offense
      to contract with another whereby, in consideration of the latter’s be-
      coming surety for the convicted person’s fine, the convicted person agreed
      to perform certain services, and that further stipulated that, if such
      contract were breached, the convicted person would become subject to
      a fine equal to the damages sustained by the other contracting party
      and payment of which would be remitted to that contracting party, im-
      posed a form of peonage proscribed by the Thirteenth Amendment.
              Justices concurring: Holmes (separately)

211. McCabe v. Atchison, T. & S.F. Ry.,235 U.S. 151 (1914).
          Oklahoma Separate Coach Law violated the Equal Protection Clause
      by permitting carriers to provide sleeping, dining, and chair cars for
      whites but not for Negroes.
              Justices concurring: White (separately), C.J., Holmes (separately), Lamar
                (separately), McReynolds (separately)

212. Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U.S. 197 (1914).
          A South Dakota law that required a foreign corporation to ap-
      point a local agent to accept service of process as a condition prec-
      edent to suing in state courts to collect a claim arising out of inter-
      state commerce imposed an invalid burden on said commerce.

213. Choctaw & Gulf R.R. v. Harrison, 235 U.S. 292 (1914).
           An Oklahoma privilege tax, insofar as it was levied on sale of coal
      extracted from lands owned by Indian tribes and leased on their be-
      half by the Federal Government, was invalid as a tax on federal instru-
      mentality.

214. Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U.S. 1 (1915).
          Kansas law proscribing “yellow dog” contracts whereby the em-
      ployer exacted of employees an agreement not to join or remain a mem-
      ber of a union as a condition of acquiring and retaining employment
      deprived employees of liberty of contract contrary to due process.
              Justices concurring: Pitney, McKenna, Van Devanter, Lamar, McReynolds,
                White, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Day, Hughes, Holmes (separately)

215. Heyman v. Hays, 236 U.S. 178 (1915).
           Tennessee county privilege tax law, insofar as it was enforced as
      to a liquor dealer doing a strictly mail-order business confined to ship-
      ments to out-of-state destinations was void as a burden on interstate
      commerce.
