      as applied to parties who bring gasoline from without and sell it in
      New Mexico, imposed an invalid burden on interstate commerce inso-
      far as it related to their business of selling in tank car lots and in
      barrels or packages as originally imported.

256. Wallace v. Hines, 253 U.S. 66 (1920).
           North Dakota act, as administered, imposed invalid burden on in-
      terstate commerce and took property without due process by reason of
      taxing an interstate railroad by assessing the value of its property in
      the state at that proportion of the total value of its stock and bonds
      that the main track mileage within the state bore to the main track
      mileage of the entire line; this formula was indefensible inasmuch as
      the cost of construction per mile was within than without the taxing
      state, and the large and valuable terminals of the railroad were lo-
      cated elsewhere.

257. Hawke v. Smith (No. 1), 253 U.S. 221 (1920).
          Action of Ohio legislature ratifying proposed Eighteenth Amend-
      ment could not be referred to the voters, and the provisions of the Ohio
      constitution requiring such referendum were inconsistent with Article
      V of the Federal Constitution.
          Accord: Hawke v. Smith (No. 2), 253 U.S. 231 (1920), applicable
      to proposed Nineteenth Amendment.

258. Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253 U.S. 287 (1920).
           Since Pennsylvania Public Service Commission Law failed to pro-
      vide opportunity by way of appeal to the courts or by injunctive pro-
      ceedings to test issue as to whether rates fixed by Commission are con-
      fiscatory, order of Commission establishing maximum future rates violated
      due process of law.
             Justices concurring: McReynolds, Day, Van Devanter, Pitney, McKenna, White, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Brandeis, Holmes, Clarke

259. Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U.S. 412 (1920).
           A Virginia law that taxed all income of local corporation derived
      from business within and without Virginia, while exempting entirely
      income derived outside of Virginia by local corporations that did no
      local business, violated the Equal Protection Clause.
             Justices concurring: Pitney, McReynolds, McKenna, Day, Van Devanter, Clarke,
               White, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Brandeis, Holmes
