260. Johnson v. Maryland, 254 U.S. 51 (1920).
            A Maryland law requiring an operator’s license of drivers of mo-
      tor trucks could not constitutionally be applied to a Postal Depart-
      ment employee operating a federal mail truck in the performance of
      official duty.
              Justices concurring: Holmes, McKenna, Day, Van Devanter, Brandeis, Clarke,
                White, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Pitney, McReynolds

261. Turner v. Wade, 254 U.S. 64 (1920).
           The Georgia Tax Equalization Act denied due process insofar as it
      authorized an increase in the assessed valuation of the taxpayer’s prop-
      erty without notice and hearing and accorded him an abortive remedy
      of arbitration which was nullified by the inability of the arbitrators to
      agree on a lower assessment before the expiration of the time when
      the assessment became final and binding.

262. Bank of Minden v. Clement, 256 U.S. 126 (1921).
           A Louisiana law that exempted proceeds of an insurance policy,
      payable upon death of insured to his executor, from the claims of in-
      sured’s creditors impaired the obligation of contract as enforced against
      a debt on a promissory note antedating such laws and also as en-
      forced against policies that antedated the law.
              Justices concurring: McReynolds, McKenna, Holmes, Day, Van Devanter, Pitney,
                Brandeis, White, C.J.
              Justice dissenting: Clarke

263. Bethlehem Motors Corp. v. Flynt, 256 U.S. 421 (1921).
           North Carolina statute that exacted a $500 license fee of every
      automobile manufacturer as a condition precedent to selling cars in
      the state, and which imposed a like requirement on any firm selling
      cars of a manufacturer who had not paid the tax, but that reduced
      the fee to $100 in the event that the manufacturer had invested three-
      fourths of his assets in North Carolina state and municipal securities
      or properties, violated the Commerce Clause and the Equal Protection
      Clause when enforced against nonresident manufacturers selling cars
      in North Carolina directly or through local dealers.
              Justices concurring: McKenna, Holmes, Day, Van Devanter, McReynolds, Clarke
              Justices dissenting: Pitney, Brandeis

264. Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U.S. 642 (1921).
          New Mexico statute that imposed a tax of 2 cents per gallon sold
      on distributors of gasoline was void insofar as it embraced interstate
      transactions, but the annual license fee of $50 imposed thereby on each
