      gasoline station was totally void insofar as interstate sales could not
      be separated from the intrastate sales.

265. Kansas City So. Ry. v. Road Improv. Dist. No. 6, 256 U.S. 658 (1921).
          Arkansas statute that authorized local assessments for road im-
      provements denied equal protection of the laws insofar as railroad prop-
      erty was burdened for local improvement on a basis totally different
      from that used for measuring the contribution demanded of individual
      owners.

266. Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan, 257 U.S. 265 (1921).
          West Virginia statute that forbade engaging in the business of trans-
      porting petroleum in pipe lines without the payment of a tax of 2¢ for
      each barrel of oil transported imposed an invalid burden on interstate
      commerce as applied to company’s volume of oil produced in, but mov-
      ing out of, West Virginia to extra-state destinations.
              Justices concurring: Holmes, McKenna, Day, Van Devanter, McReynolds, Taft, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Clarke, Pitney, Brandeis
          Accord: United Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan, 257 U.S. 277 (1921), void-
      ing like application of the West Virginia tax to the interstate move-
      ment of natural gas.
              Justices concurring: Holmes, Pitney, McReynolds, Day, Van Devanter, McKenna,
                Taft, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Brandeis, Clarke

267. Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U.S. 282 (1921).
           A Kentucky law prescribing conditions under which foreign corpo-
      rations could do business in that state, and that precluded enforce-
      ment in Kentucky courts of contracts made by foreign corporations not
      complying with such conditions, could not be enforced against Tennes-
      see corporation that sued in a Kentucky court for breach of a contract
      consummated in that state for the purchase of grain to be delivered to
      and used in Tennessee; such transaction was in interstate commerce,
      notwithstanding that the Tennessee purchaser might change its mind
      after delivery to a carrier in Kentucky and sell the grain in Kentucky
      or consign it to some other place in Kentucky.
              Justices concurring: Van Devanter, Holmes, Pitney, Day, McKenna, McReynolds,
                Taft, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Brandeis, Clarke

268. Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U.S. 312 (1921).
          An Arizona statute that regulated injunctions in labor disputes,
      but exempted ex-employees, when committing tortious injury to the
      business of their former employer in the form of mass picketing, libel-
