             Justices dissenting: Brandeis, Holmes

290. Pennsylvania v. West Virginia, 262 U.S. 553 (1923).
           A West Virginia law that required pipe line companies to fill all
      local needs before endeavoring to export any natural gas extracted in
      West Virginia was void as a prohibited interference with interstate com-
      merce.
             Justices concurring: Van Devanter, Sutherland, Butler, McKenna, Taft, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Holmes, McReynolds, Brandeis, Sanford

291. Clallam County v. United States, 263 U.S. 341 (1923).
           Washington state and county property taxes cannot be levied on
      the property of a corporation that, though formed under Washington
      law, was a federal instrumentality created and operated by the United
      States as an instrument of war.

292. Tampa Interocean Steamship Co. v. Louisiana, 266 U.S. 594 (1925).
           A Louisiana license tax law could not validly be enforced as to the
      business of companies employed as agents by owners of vessels en-
      gaged exclusively in interstate and foreign commerce when the ser-
      vices performed by the agents consisted of the soliciting and engaging
      of cargo, and the nomination of vessels to carry it, etc. (See Texas Transp.
      Co. v. New Orleans, 264 U.S. 150 (1924), voiding like application of a
      similar New Orleans ordinance.)

293. Burns Baking Co. v. Bryan, 264 U.S. 504 (1924).
           A Nebraska law that prescribed the minimum weights of loaves
      of bread to be made and sold and that, in order to prevent the palm-
      ing off of smaller for larger sizes, fixed a maximum for each class and
      allowed a “tolerance” of only two ounces per pound in excess of the
      minimum was found to be unreasonable, to be unnecessary to protect
      purchasers against the imposition of fraud by short weights, and there-
      fore to deprive bakers and sellers of bread of their liberty without due
      process of law.
             Justices concurring: Butler, Sanford, McReynolds, Sutherland, McKenna, Van
               Devanter, Taft, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Brandeis, Holmes

294. Atchison, T. & S.F. Ry. v. Wells, 265 U.S. 101 (1924).
          A Texas law that permitted a nonresident to prosecute a case which
      arose outside of Texas against a railroad corporation of another state,
      which was engaged in interstate commerce and neither owned nor op-
      erated facilities in Texas, was inoperative because it burdened inter-
      state commerce.
