295. Air-Way Corp. v. Day, 266 U.S. 71 (1924).
           An Ohio law that levied an annual fee on foreign corporations for
      the privilege of exercising their franchise in the state, which was com-
      puted at the rate of 5¢ per share upon the proportion of the number
      of shares of authorized common stock represented by property owned
      and used and business transacted in Ohio, was void as imposing a bur-
      den on interstate commerce when applied to a foreign corporation all
      of whose business, intrastate and interstate, and all of whose prop-
      erty were represented by the shares outstanding; application of the
      rate to all shares authorized, or even to a greater number than the
      total outstanding, amounted to a burden on all property and business
      including interstate commerce. As imposed, the tax also violated the
      Equal Protection Clause.

296. Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Dunken, 266 U.S. 389 (1924).
          An insurance policy originally issued to insurer in Tennessee and con-
      verted by him in Texas from term insurance to 20 year payment life was
      deemed to be a mere continuation of the original policy, and upon suit on
      the policy in Texas, a Texas law imposing a penalty and allowing an at-
      torney’s fee could not constitutionally be applied against the insurer for
      the reason that Texas could not regulate contracts consummated out-
      side its limits in conformity with the laws of the place where the con-
      tract was made without violating Full Faith and Credit Clause.

297. Ozark Pipe Line Corp. v. Monier, 266 U.S. 555 (1925).
           A Missouri law that required foreign corporations doing business In
      Missouri to pay an annual franchise tax of 1/10 of 1% of the par value
      of capital stock and surplus employed in business in the state could not
      constitutionally be exacted of a pipe line company for the privilege of do-
      ing in Missouri what was exclusively an interstate business.
             Justices concurring: Sutherland, Holmes, Van Devanter, McReynolds, Butler,
               Sanford, McKenna, Taft, C.J.
             Justice dissenting: Brandeis

298. Michigan Comm’n v. Duke, 266 U.S. 570 (1925).
           A Michigan law that converted an interstate contract motor car-
      rier into a public utility by legislative fiat in effect took property for
      public use without compensation in violation of the due process clause,
      and also imposed unreasonable conditions on the right to carry on in-
      terstate commerce.

299. Flanagan v. Federal Coal Co., 267 U.S. 222 (1925).
          In a suit for breach of contract, a plaintiff ’s right to sue could not
      be barred by his failure to pay a Tennessee license tax, because the
