      state law levying the tax could not be applied to a contract for the
      purchase of coal to be delivered to customers in other states; that is,
      in interstate commerce.

300. Buck v. Kuykendall, 267 U.S. 307 (1925).
           A Washington law that prohibited motor vehicle common carriers
      for hire from using its highways without obtaining a certificate of con-
      venience could not validly be exacted of an interstate motor carrier;
      the law was not a regulation designed to promote public safety but a
      prohibition of competition and, accordingly, burdened interstate com-
      merce.
             Justices concurring: Brandeis, Sanford, Sutherland, Van Devanter, Butler, Holmes,
               Taft, C.J.
             Justice dissenting: McReynolds

301. Accord: Bush Co. v. Maloy, 267 U.S. 317 (1925), voiding like application
    of a similar Maryland law.
             Justices concurring: Brandeis, Sutherland, Van Devanter, Holmes, Sanford, Butler,
               Taft, C.J.
             Justice dissenting: McReynolds

302. Accord: Allen v. Galveston Truck Line Corp., 289 U.S. 708 (1933), void-
    ing like application of a Texas law.

303. Shafer v. Farmers Grain Co., 268 U.S. 189 (1925).
           The North Dakota Grain Grading Act, which required locally grown
      wheat, 90% of which was for interstate shipment, to be graded by li-
      censed inspectors, and imposed various requirements, such as the keep-
      ing of records of quantity purchased and price paid and the exaction
      of bonds from purchasers maintaining grain elevators, was not support-
      able as an inspection law and imposed undue burdens on interstate
      commerce.
             Justices concurring: Van Devanter, Holmes, Butler, McReynolds, Sutherland,
               Sanford, Stone, Taft, C.J.
             Justice dissenting: Brandeis

304. Alpha Cement Co. v. Massachusetts, 268 U.S. 203 (1925).
           A Massachusetts law that imposed excise tax on foreign corpora-
      tions doing business in the state, measured by a combination of the
      total value of capital shares attributable to transactions therein and
      the proportion of net income attributable to such transactions, could
      not validly be applied to a foreign corporation which transacted only
      as interstate business therein. The tax as here imposed also violated
      due process by affecting property beyond Massachusetts borders.
