316. Appleby v. Delaney, 271 U.S. 403 (1926).
          Act of New York of 1871 that authorized New York City to con-
      struct certain harbor improvements impaired the obligation of con-
      tract embraced in prior deeds to grantees whereunder the latter were
      accorded the privilege of filling in their underwater lots and construct-
      ing piers thereover.

317. Frost Trucking Co. v. Railroad Comm’n, 271 U.S. 583 (1926).
           A California law that provided that private carriers by automo-
      bile for hire could not operate over California highways between fixed
      points in the state without obtaining a certificate of convenience and
      submitting to regulation as common carriers exacted an unconstitu-
      tional condition and effected a denial of due process.
             Justices concurring: Sutherland, McReynolds (separately), Taft, C.J., Sanford,
               Stone, Butler, Van Devanter
             Justices dissenting: Holmes, Brandeis

318. Jaybird Mining Co. v. Wier, 271 U.S. 609 (1926).
          An Oklahoma law that levied an ad valorem tax on ores mined
      and in bins on the land was void as a tax on federal instrumentality
      when applied to a lessee of Indian land leased with the approval of
      the Secretary of the Interior.
             Justices concurring: Butler, Stone, Holmes, Sanford, Sutherland, Van Devanter,
               Taft, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: McReynolds, Brandeis

319. Hughes Bros. v. Minnesota, 272 U.S. 469 (1926).
           A Minnesota law levying personal property tax could not be col-
      lected on logs cut in Minnesota pursuant to a contract of sale for deliv-
      ery in Michigan while they were in transit in interstate commerce by
      a route from Minnesota to Michigan.

320. Hanover Fire Ins. Co. v. Harding, 272 U.S. 494 (1926).
           When an Illinois tax law originally is construed as a personal prop-
      erty tax whereby the local net receipts of foreign insurance companies
      were subjected to assessment at only 30% of full value, but at a later
      date is construed as a privilege tax with the result that all the local
      net income of such foreign companies was taxed at the rate applicable
      to personal property while domestic companies continued to pay the
      tax on their personal property assessed at the reduced valuation, the
      resulting discrimination denied the foreign companies the equal pro-
      tection of the laws.
