333. Cline v. Frink Dairy Co., 274 U.S. 445 (1927).
          Because of the exception it contained, under which its prohibi-
      tions were not to apply to conduct engaged in by participants when-
      ever necessary to obtain a reasonable profit from products traded in,
      the Colorado Antitrust Law was void for want of a fixed standard for
      determining guilt and a violation of due process.

334. Power Mfg. Co. v. Saunders, 274 U.S. 490 (1927).
           As applied to a foreign corporation having a fixed place of busi-
      ness and an agent in one county, but no property, debts or anything
      also in the county in which it was sued, Arkansas law that authorized
      actions to be brought against a foreign corporation in any county in
      the state, while restricting actions against domestic corporations to the
      county where it had a place of business or where its chief officer re-
      sided, deprived the foreign corporation of equal protection of the laws.
             Justices concurring: Van Devanter, McReynolds, Sutherland, Stone, Sanford,
               Butler, Taft, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Holmes, Brandeis

335. Northwestern Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 275 U.S. 136 (1927).
           A Wisconsin law levying a tax on the gross income of domestic
      insurance companies was void where the income was derived in part
      as interest on United States bonds.

336. Wuchter v. Pizzutti, 276 U.S. 13 (1928).
           A New Jersey statute that provided that in suits by residents against
      nonresidents for injuries resulting from operation of motor vehicles by
      the latter, service might be made on the Secretary of State as their agent,
      but that failed to provide any assurance that notice of such service would
      be communicated to the nonresidents, violated due process.
             Justices concurring: Taft, C.J., Van Devanter, Butler, Sutherland, Sanford,
               McReynolds
             Justices dissenting: Brandeis, Holmes, Stone

337. Accord: Consolidated Flour Mills Co. v. Muegge, 278 U.S. 559 (1928),
    voiding similar service as authorized by an Oklahoma law.

338. Missouri ex rel. Robertson v. Miller, 276 U.S. 174 (1928).
          A Mississippi statute that terminated the right of a retired rev-
      enue agent to prosecute suits for unpaid taxes in the name of his
      successor by requiring that the successor approve and join in such
      suits, and that stipulated that the successor share equally in the
      commissions that had accrued solely to the retired agent, was held
      to impair the latter’s rights under the Contract Clause insofar as it
