344. Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi ex rel. Knox, 277 U.S. 218 (1928).
          A Mississippi law imposing tax on the sale of gasoline was void
      as applied to sales to federal instrumentalities such as the Coast Guard
      or a Veterans’ Hospital.
             Justices concurring: Butler, Sutherland, Van Devanter, Sanford, Taft, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Holmes, Brandeis, Stone, McReynolds

345. Accord: Graysburg Oil Co. v. Texas, 278 U.S. 582 (1929), voiding appli-
    cation of Texas gasoline tax statute to gasoline sold to the United
    States.

346. Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U.S. 350 (1928).
          A New Jersey law empowering the Secretary of Labor to fix the
      fees charged by employment agencies violated due process because
      the regulation was not imposed on a business affected with a public
      interest.
             Justices concurring: Sutherland, Taft, C.J., Sanford, Butler, McReynolds, Van
               Devanter
             Justices dissenting: Stone, Holmes, Brandeis

347. Quaker City Cab Co. v. Pennsylvania, 277 U.S. 389 (1928).
           A Pennsylvania law that taxed gross receipts of foreign and domes-
      tic corporations derived from intrastate operation of taxicabs, but ex-
      empted like receipts derived by individuals and partnerships, denied
      equal protection of the laws.
             Justices concurring: Butler, Sutherland, Sanford, Van Devanter, McReynolds,
               Taft, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Holmes, Brandeis, Stone

348. Foster-Fountain Packing Co. v. Haydel, 278 U.S. 1 (1928).
           The Louisiana Shrimp Act, which permitted shipment of shrimp
      taken in Louisiana tidal waters only if the heads and hulls had previ-
      ously been removed, and which was designed to favor the canning in
      Louisiana of shrimp destined for the interstate market, was unconsti-
      tutional; those taking the shrimp immediately became entitled to ship
      them in interstate commerce.
             Justices concurring: Butler, Sutherland, Sanford, Stone, Van Devanter, Holmes,
               Brandeis, Taft, C.J.
             Justice dissenting: McReynolds
