349. Accord: Johnson v. Haydel, 278 U.S. 16 (1928), voiding the Louisiana
    Oyster Act for like reasons.

350. Louis K. Liggett Co. v. Baldridge, 278 U.S. 105 (1928).
          A Pennsylvania law that prohibited corporate ownership of a
      drug store unless all of the stockholders were licensed pharmacists
      had no reasonable relationship to public health and therefore vio-
      lated due process.
             Justices concurring: Sutherland, Butler, Van Devanter, Stone, Sanford, McReynolds,
               Taft, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Holmes, Brandeis

351. Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U.S. 235 (1929).
          A Tennessee law that fixed the prices at which gasoline may be
      sold violated due process because the business sought to be regulated
      was not affected with a public interest.
             Justices concurring: Sutherland, Stone (separately), Sanford, McReynolds, Butler,
               Brandeis (separately), Van Devanter, Taft, C.J.
             Justice dissenting: Holmes

352. Cudahy Co. v. Hinkle, 278 U.S. 460 (1929).
           Where the local property of a foreign corporation and the part of
      its business transacted in the state, less than half of which was intra-
      state, were but small fractions of its entire property and its nation-
      wide business, Washington law that taxed the corporation in the form
      of a filing fee and a license tax, both reckoned upon its authorized capi-
      tal stock, was inoperative because it burdened interstate commerce and
      reached property beyond the state contrary to due process.
             Justices concurring: McReynolds, Sutherland, Stone, Sanford, Butler, Van Devanter,
               Taft, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Brandeis, Holmes

353. Frost v. Corporation Comm’n, 278 U.S. 515 (1929).
           An Oklahoma law that permitted an individual to engage in the
      business of ginning cotton only upon a showing of public necessity, but
      allowed a corporation to engage in that business in the same locality
      without such a showing, denied the individual equal protection of the
      law.
             Justices concurring: Sutherland, Butler, Van Devanter, McReynolds, Sanford,
               Taft, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Brandeis, Holmes, Stone
