354. Manley v. Georgia, 279 U.S. 1 (1929).
          A Georgia banking law that declared that every insolvency of a
      bank shall be deemed to have been fraudulent, with provision for re-
      butting that presumption, was arbitrary and unreasonable and vio-
      lated due process.

355. Carson Petroleum Co. v. Vial, 279 U.S. 95 (1929).
           A Louisiana tax law could not be enforced against oil purchased
      at interior points for export in foreign commerce for the oil did not
      lose its character as goods in foreign commerce merely because, after
      shipment to the exporter at a Louisiana port, the oil was temporarily
      stored there preparatory to loading on vessels of foreign consignees.
              Justices concurring: Taft, C.J., Holmes, Brandeis, Stone, Sanford, Van Devanter,
                Butler
              Justices dissenting: McReynolds, Sutherland

356. London Guarantee & Accident Co. v. Industrial Comm’n, 279 U.S. 109
    (1929).
           California workmen’s compensation act could not be applied in settle-
      ment of a claim for the death of a seaman in a case that was subject
      to the exclusive maritime jurisdiction of federal courts.
              Justices concurring: Taft, C.J., Holmes, Stone, Sanford, Sutherland, McReynolds,
                Butler, Van Devanter
              Justice dissenting: Brandeis

357. Helson v. Kentucky, 279 U.S. 245 (1929).
          A Kentucky law imposing a tax on the sale of gasoline could not
      be applied to gasoline purchased outside Kentucky for use in a ferry
      engaged as an instrumentality of interstate commerce, that is, in op-
      eration on the Ohio River between Kentucky and Illinois.
              Justices concurring: Sutherland, Butler, Van Devanter, Sanford, Stone (separately),
                Brandeis (separately), Holmes (separately), Taft, C.J.
              Justice dissenting: McReynolds

358. Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts, 279 U.S. 620 (1929).
          A Massachusetts law imposing an excise on domestic business cor-
      porations was in reality a statute imposing a tax on income rather
      than a tax on the corporate privilege and, as an income tax law, could
      not be imposed on income derived from United States bonds nor, be-
      cause it impaired the obligation of contract, on income from local county
      and municipal bonds exempt by statutory contract.
              Justices concurring: Sutherland, Sanford, Butler, Van Devanter, McReynolds,
                Taft, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Stone, Holmes, Brandeis
