359. Western & Atlantic R.R. v. Henderson, 279 U.S. 639 (1929).
           A Georgia law that viewed a fatal collision between railroad and
      motor car at grade crossing as raising a presumption of negligence on
      the part of the railroad and as the proximate cause of death and that
      permitted the jury to weigh the presumption as evidence against the
      testimony of the railroad’s witnesses tending to prove due care was
      unreasonable and violated due process.

360. Safe Deposit & Trust Co. v. Virginia, 280 U.S. 83 (1929).
           A Virginia law that levied a property tax on corpus of a trust con-
      sisting of securities managed by a Maryland trustee who paid over to
      children of settlor, all of whom resided in Virginia, the income from
      the trust, violated due process because it taxed intangibles with a tax-
      able situs in Maryland, where the trustee and owner of the legal title
      was located.
             Justices concurring: McReynolds, Van Devanter, Butler, Sutherland, Sanford,
               Stone (separately), Brandeis (separately), Holmes (separately), Taft, C.J.

361. Farmers Loan Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U.S. 204 (1930).
           A Minnesota inheritance tax law, insofar as it was applied to Min-
      nesota securities kept in New York by the decedent who died domi-
      ciled in New York, violated due process.
             Justices concurring: McReynolds, Van Devanter, Butler, Sutherland, Sanford,
               Stone (separately), Taft, C.J.

362. New Jersey Tel. Co. v. Tax Board, 280 U.S. 338 (1930).
          A New Jersey franchise tax law, levied at the rate of 5% of gross
      receipts of a telephone company engaged in interstate and foreign com-
      merce, was a direct tax on foreign and interstate commerce and void.
             Justices concurring: Butler, Sutherland, Sanford, Van Devanter, McReynolds
             Justices dissenting: Holmes, Brandeis

363. Moore v. Mitchell, 281 U.S. 18 (1930).
          Indiana was powerless to give any force or effect beyond her bor-
      ders to its 1927 law that purported to authorize a county treasurer to
      sue for unpaid taxes owed by a nonresident; such officer derived no
      authority in New York from this Indiana law and hence had no legal
      capacity to sue in a federal court in New York.

364. Missouri ex rel. Missouri Ins. Co. v. Gehner, 281 U.S. 313 (1930).
          A Missouri law that provided that, in taxing assets of insurance
      companies, the amounts of their legal reserves and unpaid policy claims
      should first be deducted, was invalid as applied to a company owning
      nontaxable United States bonds insofar as the law was construed to
