      require that the deduction should be reduced by the proportion of the
      value that such bonds bore to total assets; the company thus was saddled
      with a heavier tax burden than would have been imposed had it not
      owned such bonds.
             Justices concurring: Butler, Van Devanter, McReynolds, Sutherland, Hughes
               (separately), C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Stone, Holmes, Brandeis

365. Home Ins. Co. v. Dick, 281 U.S. 397 (1930).
          A Texas law that forbade insurance stipulations limiting the
      time for suit on a claim to less than two years could not be ap-
      plied, consistently with due process, to permit recovery contrary to
      the terms of a fire insurance policy executed in Mexico by a Mexi-
      can insurer and covered in part by reinsurance effected in Mexico
      and New York by New York insurers licensed to do business in
      Texas who defended against a Texas claimant to whom the policy
      was assigned while he was a resident of Mexico and where he re-
      sided when the loss was sustained.

366. Baldwin v. Missouri, 281 U.S. 586 (1930).
           Missouri, not having jurisdiction for tax purposes of various intan-
      gibles, such as bank accounts and federal securities held in banks in
      Missouri and owned by a decedent domiciled in Illinois, its transfer
      tax law could not be applied, consistently with due process, to the trans-
      fer of such intangibles, under a will probated in Illinois, to the dece-
      dent’s son who also was domiciled in Illinois.
             Justices concurring: McReynolds, Van Devanter, Sutherland, Butler
             Justices dissenting: Holmes, Brandeis, Stone (separately)

367. Surplus Trading Co. v. Cook, 281 U.S. 647 (1930).
          Arkansas personal property tax laws could not be enforced against
      the purchaser of army blankets situate within an army cantonment in
      that state, as to which exclusive federal jurisdiction attached under
      Art. I, § 8, cl. 17.

368. Beidler v. South Carolina Tax Comm’n, 282 U.S. 1 (1930).
          South Carolina inheritance tax law could not be applied, consis-
      tently with due process, to affect the transfer by will of shares in a
      South Carolina corporation and debts owed by the latter belonging to
      a decedent who died domiciled in Illinois; such intangibles were not
      shown to have acquired any taxable business situs in South Carolina.
             Justices concurring: Hughes, C.J., Holmes (separately), Brandeis (separately),
               Van Devanter, McReynolds, Sutherland, Butler, Stone, Roberts
