369. Chicago, St. P., M. & O. Ry. v. Holmberg, 282 U.S. 162 (1930).
          A Nebraska law, as construed, that required a railroad to provide
      an underground cattle-pass across its right of way partly at its own
      expense for the purpose, not of advancing safety, but merely for the
      convenience of a farmer owning land on both sides of the railroad, de-
      prived the latter of property without due process.

370. Furst v. Brewster, 282 U.S. 493 (1931).
          An Arkansas law that withheld from a foreign corporation the right
      to sue in state courts unless it had filed a copy of its charter and a
      financial statement and had designated a local office and an agent to
      accept service of process could not constitutionally be enforced to pre-
      vent suit by a non-complying foreign corporation to collect a debt which
      arose out of an interstate transaction for the sale of goods.

371. Coolidge v. Long, 282 U.S. 582 (1931).
           A Massachusetts law that imposed succession taxes on all prop-
      erty in Massachusetts transferred by deed or gift intended to take ef-
      fect in possession or enjoyment after the death of the grantor, or trans-
      ferred to any person absolutely or in trust, could not, consistently with
      due process or the Contract Clause, be enforced with reference to rights
      of succession or rights effected by gift that vested under trust agree-
      ments created prior to passage of the act, notwithstanding that the
      settlor died after its passage.
              Justices concurring: Butler, Van Devanter, McReynolds, Sutherland, Hughes, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Roberts, Holmes, Brandeis, Stone

372. Hans Rees’ Sons v. North Carolina,283 U.S. 123 (1931).
           A North Carolina income tax law, as applied to income of New
      York corporation that manufactured leather goods in North Carolina
      for sale in New York, violated due process because the formula for al-
      locating income to that state, namely, that part of the corporation’s
      net income that bears the same ratio to entire net income as the value
      of its tangible property in North Carolina bears to the value of all its
      tangible property, attributed to North Carolina a portion of total in-
      come that was out of all appropriate proportion to the business of the
      corporation conducted in North Carolina.

373. Interstate Transit, Inc. v. Lindsey, 283 U.S. 183 (1931).
           A Tennessee law that imposed a privilege tax graduated to carry-
      ing capacity on motor buses, the proceeds from which were not segre-
      gated for application to highway maintenance, was void insofar as the
      privilege tax was imposed on a bus carrier engaged exclusively in in-
      terstate commerce.
