             Justices concurring: Brandeis, Van Devanter, Butler, Sutherland, Roberts, Stone,
               Holmes, Hughes, C.J.
             Justice dissenting: McReynolds

374. Stromberg v. California, 283 U.S. 359 (1931).
           A California law that prohibited the display of a red flag in a pub-
      lic or meeting place as a symbol of opposition to organized govern-
      ment or as a stimulus to anarchistic action or as an aid to seditious
      propaganda was so vague and indefinite as to permit punishment of
      the fair use of opportunity for free political discussion and therefore,
      as enforced, denied liberty without due process.
             Justices concurring: Hughes, C.J., Holmes, Stone, Brandeis, Roberts, Van Devanter,
               Sutherland
             Justices dissenting: Butler, McReynolds

375. Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U.S. 553 (1931).
           Florida law that required motor carriers to furnish bond or an in-
      surance policy for the protection of the public against injuries but which
      exempted vehicles used exclusively in delivering dairy products and
      carriers engaged exclusively in transporting fish, agricultural, and dairy
      products between production to shipping points en route to primary
      market denied the equal protection of the laws; and insofar as it sub-
      jected carriers for hire to the same requirements as to procurement of
      a certificate of convenience and necessity and rate regulation as were
      exacted of common carriers the law violated due process.

376. Near v. Minnesota ex rel. Olson, 283 U.S. 697 (1931).
           A Minnesota law that authorized the enjoinder of one engaged regu-
      larly in the business of publishing a malicious, scandalous, and defama-
      tory newspaper or magazine, as applied to publications charging ne-
      glect of duty and corruption on the part of state law enforcement officers,
      effected an unconstitutional infringement of freedom of the press as
      safeguarded by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amend-
      ment.
             Justices concurring: Hughes, C.J., Brandeis, Holmes, Stone, Roberts
             Justices dissenting: Butler, Van Devanter, McReynolds, Sutherland

377. State Tax Comm’n v. Interstate Natural Gas Co., 284 U.S. 41 (1931).
           A Mississippi privilege tax could not be enforced as to an inter-
      state pipe line company that sold gas wholesale to local, independent
      distributors from a supply which passed into and through the state in
      interstate commerce; fact that pipe line company, in order to make de-
      livery, used a thermometer and reduced pressure, did not convert the
      sale into an intrastate transaction.
