378. Hoeper v. Tax Comm’n, ,284 U.S. 206 (1931).
          A Wisconsin income tax law that authorized an assessment against
      a husband of a tax computed on the combined total of his and his wife’s
      incomes, augmented by surtaxes resulting from the combination, not-
      withstanding that under the laws of Wisconsin the husband had no
      interest in, or control over, the property or income of his wife, violated
      the Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses of the Fourteenth Amend-
      ment.
              Justices concurring: Roberts, Butler, Van Devanter, McReynolds, Sutherland,
                Hughes, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Holmes, Brandeis, Stone

379. First Nat’l Bank v. Maine, 284 U.S. 312 (1932).
           A Maine transfer tax law could not be applied, consistently with
      due process, to the inheritance of shares in a Maine corporation pass-
      ing under the will of a Massachusetts testator who died a resident of
      Massachusetts and owning the shares.
              Justices concurring: Sutherland, Butler, Van Devanter, Roberts, McReynolds,
                Hughes, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Stone, Holmes, Brandeis

380. New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, 285 U.S. 262 (1932).
          An Oklahoma law that prohibited anyone from engaging in the
      manufacture, sale, or distribution of ice without a state license, to be
      issued only on proof of public necessity and capacity to meet public
      demand, constituted an invalid regulation of a business not affected
      with a public interest and a denial of liberty to pursue a lawful call-
      ing contrary to due process.
              Justices concurring: Sutherland, Van Devanter, McReynolds, Butler, Roberts,
                Hughes, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Brandeis, Stone

381. Coombes v. Getz, 285 U.S. 434 (1932).
          Repeal of a California constitutional provision making directors of
      corporations liable to creditors for all moneys misappropriated or em-
      bezzled impaired the obligation of contract as to creditors who dealt
      with corporations during the period when the constitutional provision
      was in force, and inclusion in the state constitution of another provi-
      sion under which the state reserved the power to alter or repeal all
      existing or future laws concerning corporations could not be invoked
      to destroy vested rights contrary to due process.
              Justices concurring: Sutherland, Roberts, Butler, McReynolds, Van Devanter,
                Hughes, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Cardozo, Brandeis, Stone
