21. Planters’ Bank v. Sharp, 47 U.S. (6 How.) 301 (1848).
           A Mississippi statute that nullified the power of a bank under a
      previously issued charter to discount bills of exchange and promissory
      notes and to institute actions for collection of the same was void be-
      cause it impaired an obligation of contract, in violation of Art. I, § 10.
              Justices concurring: McLean, Wayne, Catron, Nelson, Woodbury, Grier
              Justices dissenting: Taney, C.J., Daniel

22. Passenger Cases (Smith v. Turner), 48 U.S. (7 How.) 283 (1849).
           Collection by New York and Massachusetts of per capita taxes on
      alien and domestic passengers arriving in the ports of these states vio-
      lated Congress’s power to regulate foreign and interstate commerce pur-
      suant to Art. I, § 8, cl. 3.
              Justices concurring: McLean (separately), Wayne (separately), Catron (separately),
                McKinley (separately), Grier (separately)
              Justices dissenting: Taney (separately), C.J., Daniel (separately), Woodbury
                (separately), Nelson

23. Woodruff v. Trapnall, 51 U.S. (10 How.) 190 (1851).
           A judgment debtor of the State of Arkansas tendered, in satisfac-
      tion of the judgment, banknotes in circulation at the time of the re-
      peal by the state of that section of the said bank’s charter providing
      that such notes should be received in discharge of public debts. Be-
      cause of the Contract Clause, the legislative repeal could neither af-
      fect such notes nor abrogate the pledge of the state to receive them in
      payment of debts.
              Justices concurring: Taney, C.J., McLean, Wayne, McKinley, Woodbury
              Justices dissenting: Catron, Daniel, Nelson, Grier

24. Achison v. Huddleson, 53 U.S. (12 How.) 293 (1852).
           Because a Maryland statute, assented to by Congress, prohibited tolls
      from being levied by that state on passenger coaches carrying mails over
      the Cumberland Road, later Maryland law imposing tolls on passen-
      gers in such coaches was void because it conflicted with an earlier com-
      pact between Maryland and the Federal Government and also because
      it imposed a burden on federal carriage of the mails under Art. VI.

25. Trustees for Vincennes University v. Indiana, 55 U.S. (14 How.) 268 (1853).
           Because the incorporation by the territorial legislature of the uni-
      versity in 1806 operated to vest in the latter certain federal lands re-
      served for educational purposes, a subsequent enactment by Indiana
      ordering the sale of such lands and use of the proceeds for other pur-
      poses was invalid because of impairment of the contractual rights of
      the university.
