382. Nixon v. Condon, 286 U.S. 73 (1932).
           Texas White Primary Law that empowered the state executive com-
      mittee of a political party to prescribe the qualifications of members
      of the party and thereby to exclude Negroes from voting in primaries
      conducted by the party amounted to state action in violation of the
      Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
              Justices concurring: Cardozo, Brandeis, Stone, Roberts, Hughes, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: McReynolds, Van Devanter, Butler, Sutherland

383. Champlin Rfg. Co. v. Corporation Comm’n, 286 U.S. 210 (1932).
           An Oklahoma statute that provided that any person violating it
      shall be subject to having his oil-producing property placed in the hands
      of a receiver by a court upon the state attorney general’s filing suit,
      but that restricted such receivership to the operation of producing wells
      and the marketing of the production of such wells in conformity with
      this law, was a penal provision and as such violated due process clause
      because it punished violations of regulatory provisions of the statute
      that were too vague to afford a standard of conduct.

384. Anglo-Chilean Corp. v. Alabama, 288 U.S. 218 (1933).
           An Alabama law that subjected foreign corporations to an annual
      franchise tax for doing business, levied at the rate of $2 for each $1,000
      of capital employed in the state, violated both Art. I, § 10, cl. 2, prohib-
      iting state import duties, and the Commerce Clause, when enforced
      against a foreign corporation, whose sole business in Alabama con-
      sisted of the landing, storing, and selling in original packages of goods
      imported from abroad.
              Justices concurring: Butler, McReynolds, Van Devanter, Roberts, Sutherland,
                Hughes, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Cardozo, Brandeis, Stone

385. Louis K. Liggett Co. v. Lee, 288 U.S. 517 (1933).
           The Florida Chain Store Tax Law, which levied a heavier privi-
      lege tax per store on the owner whose stores were in different coun-
      ties than on the owner whose stores were all in the same county, de-
      nied equal protection of the laws.
              Justices concurring: Roberts, McReynolds, Sutherland, Butler, Van Devanter,
                Hughes, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Brandeis, Cardozo, Stone

386. Consolidated Textile Co. v. Gregory, 289 U.S. 85 (1933).
           A Wisconsin law, insofar as it authorized service of process on a
      foreign corporation that sold goods in Wisconsin through a controlled
      subsidiary and hence was not carrying on any business in the state at
