      the time of the attempted service, violated due process, notwithstand-
      ing that the summons was served on an officer of the corporation tem-
      porarily in Wisconsin for the purpose of negotiating a controversy with
      a local attorney.

387. Johnson Oil Co. v. Oklahoma,290 U.S. 158 (1933).
          An Oklahoma property tax law could not be enforced, consistently
      with due process, against the entire fleet of tank cars of an Illinois
      corporation that were used in transporting oil from its refinery in Okla-
      homa to other states; instead, the state may base its tax on the num-
      ber of cars that on the average were physically present within its bound-
      aries.

388. Southern Ry. v. Virginia, 290 U.S. 190 (1933).
          A Virginia law that authorized an administrative officer to re-
      quire railroads to eliminate grade crossing whenever, in his opinion,
      such alterations were necessary to promote public safety and conve-
      nience and afforded the railroads no notice or hearing on the exis-
      tence of such necessity and no means of reviewing the officer’s deci-
      sion violated due process.
              Justices concurring: McReynolds, Roberts, Butler, Van Devanter, Sutherland,
                Brandeis
              Justices dissenting: Hughes, C.J., Stone, Cardozo

389. Morrison v. California, 291 U.S. 82 (1934).
           A section of the California Alien Land Law that provided that, when
      the state, in a prosecution for violating such law, proved use or occu-
      pancy by an alien lessee, alleged in the indictment to be an alien ineli-
      gible for naturalization, the onus of proving citizenship shall devolve
      upon the defense, was arbitrary and violated due process as applied
      to the lessee because a lease of land conveys no hint of criminality
      and there is no practical necessity for relieving the prosecution of the
      obligation of proving Japanese race.

390. Standard Oil Co. v. California, 291 U.S. 242 (1934).
           A California law that levied a license tax upon every distributor
      for each gallon of motor vehicle fuel sold and delivered by him in the
      state could not constitutionally be applied to the sale and delivery of
      gasoline to a military reservation as to which the United States had
      acquired exclusive jurisdiction.

391. Hartford Accident & Ins. Co. v. Delta Pine Land Co., 292 U.S. 143 (1934).
           Mississippi statutes, as judicially construed, that deemed all con-
      tracts of insurance and surety covering its citizens to have been made
      in Mississippi and that were enforced to facilitate recovery under an
