      indemnity contract consummated in Tennessee in conformity with the
      law of Tennessee, where the insured, a Mississippi corporation, also
      conducted its business, and to nullify as contrary to Mississippi law
      nonobservance of a contractual stipulation as to the time for filing claims,
      violated due process because the Mississippi laws were accorded effect
      beyond the territorial limits of Mississippi.

392. McKnett v. St. Louis & S.F. Ry.,292 U.S. 230 (1934).
           An Alabama law, as judicially construed, that precluded Alabama
      courts from entertaining actions against foreign corporations arising
      in other states under federal law, while permitting entertainment of
      such actions arising in other states under state law, violated the Con-
      stitution.

393. W. B. Worthen Co. v. Thomas, 292 U.S. 426 (1934).
           An Arkansas law that exempted life insurance proceeds from judi-
      cial process, when applied to prevent recovery by a creditor of the in-
      sured who had garnished the insurer prior to passage of the law, im-
      paired the obligation of contract.
              Justices concurring: Hughes, C.J., Cardozo, Brandeis, Roberts, Stone, Sutherland
                (separately), Van Devanter (separately), McReynolds (separately), Butler (sepa-
                rately)

394. Concordia Ins. Co. v. Illinois, 292 U.S. 535 (1934).
           Illinois tax laws violated the Equal Protection Clause because they
      (1) subjected foreign insurance companies selling fire, marine, inland
      marine, and casualty insurance to two property taxes, one on tangible
      property and a second, on net receipts, including net receipts from their
      casualty business, while subjecting competing foreign insurance com-
      panies selling only casualty insurance to the single tax on tangible prop-
      erty; and (2) insofar as the net receipts were assessed at full value
      while other personal property in general was assessed at only 60% of
      value.
              Justices concurring: Van Devanter, Sutherland, Butler, McReynolds, Roberts
              Justices dissenting: Cardozo, Brandeis, Stone

395. Cooney v. Mountain States Tel. Co., 294 U.S. 384 (1935).
           Montana laws that imposed an occupation tax on every telephone
      company providing service in the state imposed an invalid burden on
      interstate commerce when applied to a company that used the same
      facilities to furnish both interstate as well as intrastate services.

396. Baldwin v. G.A.F. Seelig, Inc.,294 U.S. 511 (1935).
          The New York Milk Control Act, insofar as it prohibited the sale
      of milk imported from another state unless the price paid to the pro-
