401. Worthen Co. v. Kavanaugh, 295 U.S. 56 (1935).
           An Arkansas law that reduced the remedies available to mortgag-
      ees in the event of a default on mortgage bonds issued by an improve-
      ment district, with the result that they were deprived of effective means
      of recovery for 6½ years, impaired the obligation of contract.

402. Georgia Ry. & Electric Co. v. City of Decatur,295 U.S. 165 (1935).
           Insofar as a Georgia statute that authorized a municipality to ef-
      fect certain street improvements and to assess railways having tracks
      on such streets with the cost of such improvements, included an ir-
      rebuttable presumption that a benefit accrued to the railway from such
      improvements, the statute denied the railway a hearing essential to
      due process of law.
              Justices concurring: Sutherland, Butler, Van Devanter, McReynolds, Roberts,
                Hughes, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Stone, Brandeis, Cardozo

403. Senior v. Braden, 295 U.S. 422 (1935).
           Insofar as trust certificates held by a resident represented inter-
      ests in various parcels of land located in, and outside of, Ohio, and
      afforded the holder no voice in the management of such property but
      only a right to share in the net income from it and in the proceeds
      from the sale of it, such interests could be taxed only by a uniform
      rule according to value, and an Ohio law that levied an intangible prop-
      erty tax on such interests, which was measured by income, violated
      the Equal Protection and Due Process Clauses.
              Justices concurring: McReynolds, Butler, Van Devanter, Sutherland, Roberts,
                Hughes, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Stone, Brandeis, Cardozo

404. Colgate v. Harvey, 296 U.S. 404 (1935).
          A Vermont law that levied a 4% tax on income derived from loans
      made outside the state, but that exempted entirely like income de-
      rived from money loaned within Vermont at interest not exceeding 5%
      per year, constituted arbitrary discrimination in violation of the privi-
      leges and immunities of United States citizens under the Fourteenth
      Amendment.
              Justices concurring: Sutherland, Van Devanter, Butler, McReynolds, Roberts,
                Hughes, C.J.
              Justices dissenting: Stone, Brandeis, Cardozo

405. Treigle v. Acme Homestead Ass’n, 297 U.S. 189 (1936).
           A Louisiana law that abolished a requirement that building and
      loan associations, when income was insufficient to pay all demands of
