      withdrawing stockholders within 60 days, set apart 50% of receipts to
      pay such withdrawals and provided, instead, that the directors be vested
      with sole discretion as to the amount to be allocated for such withdraw-
      als, impaired the obligation of contract as to a stockholder who, prior
      to the amendment, gave notice of withdrawal and whose demand had
      not been paid.

406. Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U.S. 233 (1936).
          A Louisiana law that imposed a tax on the gross receipts derived
      from the sale of advertisements by newspapers enjoying a circulation
      of more than 20,000 copies per week unconstitutionally restricted free-
      dom of the press contrary to the Due Process Clause of the Four-
      teenth Amendment.

407. Mayflower Farms v. Ten Eyck, 297 U.S. 266 (1936).
          The New York Milk Control Act, which permitted milk dealers with-
      out well-advertised trade names who were in business before April 10,
      1933, to sell milk in New York City at a price one cent below the mini-
      mum that was binding on competitors with well-advertised trade names,
      denied equal protection to dealers without well-advertised names who
      established their business after that date.
              Justices concurring: Roberts, Hughes, C.J., Van Devanter, Sutherland, Butler,
                McReynolds
              Justices dissenting: Cardozo, Brandeis, Stone

408. Bingaman v. Golden Eagle Lines, 297 U.S. 626 (1936).
          A New Mexico law that imposed an excise tax on the sale and use
      of gasoline and motor fuel and collected a license tax of $25 from us-
      ers who import for use in New Mexico gasoline purchased in another
      state could not validly be imposed on a motor vehicle carrier, engaged
      exclusively in interstate commerce, that imported out-of-state gasoline
      for use in New Mexico. This was because the tax was levied, not as
      compensation for the use of that state’s highways, but on the use of
      an instrumentality of interstate commerce.

409. Fisher’s Blend Station v. State Tax Comm’n, 297 U.S. 650 (1936).
           A Washington statute that levied an occupation tax measured by
      gross receipts of radio broadcasting stations within that state whose
      programs were received by listeners in other states imposed an uncon-
      stitutional burden on interstate commerce.

410. International Steel & I. Co. v. National Surety Co., 297 U.S. 657 (1936).
           A Tennessee law concerning the settlement of public construction
      contracts, which retroactively released the surety on a bond given by
      a contractor as required by prior law for the security of claims of material-
