      men and substituted, without the latter’s consent, the obligation of an-
      other bond, impaired the obligation of contract.

411. Graves v. Texas Co., 298 U.S. 393 (1936).
           An Alabama law that imposed an excise tax on the sale of gaso-
      line could not be enforced as to sales of gasoline to the United States.
             Justices concurring: Butler, Sutherland, Van Devanter, Roberts, Hughes, C.J.,
               McReynolds
             Justices dissenting: Cardozo, Brandeis

412. Morehead v. New York ex rel. Tipaldo, 298 U.S. 587 (1936).
            A New York law that required employers to pay women minimum
      wages that would be not only equal to the fair and reasonable value
      of the services rendered but also sufficient to meet the minimum cost
      of living necessary for health deprived employers and employees of their
      freedom of contract without due process of law.
             Justices concurring: Butler, Van Devanter, McReynolds, Sutherland, Roberts
             Justices dissenting: Hughes, C.J., Brandeis, Stone, Cardozo

413. Binney v. Long, 299 U.S. 280 (1936).
           A Massachusetts succession tax law under which succession to prop-
      erty through failure of an intestate to exercise a power of appoint-
      ment under a non-testamentary conveyance of the property by deed
      or trust made after September 1, 1907, was not taxed, whereas if the
      conveyance were made before that date, the succession was not only
      taxable but the rate might be substantially increased by aggregating
      the value of that succession with other interests derived by the trans-
      feree by inheritance from the donee of the power, violated the Equal
      Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
             Justices concurring: Roberts, Hughes, C.J., Van Devanter, Butler, Sutherland,
               McReynolds
             Justices dissenting: Cardozo, Brandeis

414. DeJonge v. Oregon, 299 U.S. 353 (1937).
          The Oregon Criminal Syndicalism Law, invoked to punish partici-
      pation in the conduct of a public meeting devoted to a lawful purpose
      merely because the meeting had been held under the auspices of an
      organization that taught or advocated the forcible overthrow of govern-
      ment but did not engage in such advocacy during the meeting, vio-
      lated freedom of assembly and freedom of speech guaranteed by the
      Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
