415. New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, 299 U.S. 401 (1937).
          A New York income tax law could not be extended to salaries of
      employees of the Panama Railroad Company because the company to-
      gether with its employees was a federal instrumentality (Art. VI).

416. Ingels v. Morf, 300 U.S. 290 (1937).
           The California Caravan Act, which imposed a $15 fee on each mo-
      tor vehicle transported from another state into California for the pur-
      poses of sale, imposed an unconstitutional burden on interstate com-
      merce; the proceeds from such fees were not used to meet the cost of
      highway construction or maintenance, but instead to reimburse the state
      for the added expense of policing caravan traffic, and for that purpose
      the fee was excessive.

417. Herndon v. Lowry, 301 U.S. 242 (1937).
           A Georgia insurrection statute, which punished as a crime the acts
      of soliciting members for a political party and conducting meetings of
      a local unit of that party, where one of the doctrines of the party, es-
      tablished by reference to a document not shown to have been exhib-
      ited by anyone, may be said to embrace ultimate resort in the indefi-
      nite future to violence against government, invaded freedom of speech
      as guaranteed by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amend-
      ment.
             Justices concurring: Roberts, Brandeis, Stone, Hughes, C.J., Cardozo
             Justices dissenting: Van Devanter, McReynolds, Butler, Sutherland

418. Lindsey v. Washington, 301 U.S. 397 (1937).
           A Washington statute that increased the severity of a penalty for
      a specific offense by mandating a sentence of 15 years, thereby remov-
      ing the discretion of the judge to sentence for less than the maximum
      of 15 years, when applied retroactively to a crime committed before
      its enactment, was invalid as an ex post facto law.

419. Hartford Ins. Co. v. Harrison, 301 U.S. 459 (1937).
           A Georgia law that prohibited stock insurance companies writing
      fire and casualty insurance from acting through agents who were their
      salaried employees, but that permitted mutual companies writing such
      insurance to do so, violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Four-
      teenth Amendment.
             Justices concurring: McReynolds, Sutherland, Van Devanter, Butler, Hughes, C.J.
             Justices dissenting: Roberts, Brandeis, Stone, Cardozo

420. Puget Sound Stevedoring Co. v. State Tax Comm’n, 302 U.S. 90 (1937).
          A Washington gross receipts tax law could not validly be enforced
      as to receipts accruing to a stevedoring corporation acting as an inde-
