      pendent contractor in loading and unloading cargoes of vessels en-
      gaged in interstate or foreign commerce by longshoremen subject to
      its own direction and control; such business was a form of interstate
      and foreign commerce.

421. James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U.S. 134 (1937).
           A West Virginia gross receipts tax law could not validly be en-
      forced to sustain a levy on that part of gross receipts of a federal con-
      tractor working on a federal installation in West Virginia that was de-
      rived from the fabrication of equipment at its Pennsylvania plant for
      which the contractor received payment prior to installation of such equip-
      ment on the West Virginia site owned by the Federal Government; for
      such compensable activities were completed beyond the jurisdiction of
      West Virginia.

422. Connecticut Gen. Life Ins. Co. v. Johnson, 303 U.S. 77 (1938).
            A California law that levied a privilege tax on admitted foreign
      insurers, measured by gross premiums received, violated due process
      insofar as it affected premiums received in Connecticut on contracts of
      reinsurance consummated in the latter state and covering policies of
      life insurance issued by other insurers to residents of California; Cali-
      fornia was without power to tax activities conducted beyond its bor-
      ders.
             Justices concurring: Stone, Hughes, C.J., McReynolds, Brandeis, Butler, Rob-
               erts
             Justice dissenting: Black

423. Indiana ex rel. Anderson v. Brand, 303 U.S. 95 (1938).
          An Indiana law of 1933 that repealed tenure rights of certain teach-
      ers accorded under a Tenure Act of 1927 impaired the obligation of
      contract.
             Justices concurring: Roberts, Hughes, C.J., McReynolds, Brandeis, Butler, Stone
             Justice dissenting: Black
          Accord: Indiana ex rel. Valentine v. Marker, 303 U.S. 628 (1938).

424. Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U.S. 307 (1938).
           An Indiana gross receipts tax law could not constitutionally be ap-
      plied to gross receipts derived by an Indiana corporation from sales in
      other states of goods manufactured in Indiana; as thus applied the law
      burdened interstate commerce.
             Justices concurring: Roberts, Hughes, C.J., Brandeis, Butler, Stone, Reed
             Justices dissenting: Black (in part), McReynolds (in part)
