425. Freeman v. Hewit, 329 U.S. 249 (1946).
          Indiana’s gross income tax imposed an unconstitutional burden on
      interstate commerce when applied to the receipt by one domiciled in
      the state of the proceeds of a sale of securities sent out of the state to
      be sold.
             Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Reed, Frankfurter, Jackson , Rutledge , Bur-
               ton
             Justices dissenting: Black, Douglas, Murphy

426. Indiana Dep’t of Revenue v. Nebeker, 348 U.S. 933 (1955).
           Indiana’s gross receipts tax also could not be levied on receipts
      from the purchase and sale on margin of securities by resident own-
      ers through a nonresident broker engaged in interstate commerce.
             Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Reed, Frankfurter, Burton, Clark, Minton
             Justices dissenting: Black, Douglas

427. Collins v. Yosemite Park Co., 304 U.S. 518 (1938).
           The provisions of the California Alcoholic Beverages Control Act
      that imposed a fee for a license to import alcoholic beverages and con-
      trolled the importation of such beverages, could not be enforced, con-
      sistently with the Twenty-first Amendment, against a retail dealer do-
      ing business in a National Park as to which California retained no
      jurisdiction.

428. Missouri ex rel. Gaines v. Canada, 305 U.S. 337 (1938).
           A Missouri statute that accorded Negro residents financial aid to
      enable them to obtain instruction at out-of-state universities equiva-
      lent to that afforded exclusively to white students at the University of
      Missouri denies such Negroes the equal protection of the laws. The
      obligation of a state to give equal protection of the laws can be per-
      formed only where its laws operate; that is, within its own jurisdic-
      tion.
             Justices concurring: Hughes, C.J., Brandeis, Stone, Roberts, Black, Reed
             Justices dissenting: McReynolds, Butler

429. Gwin, White & Prince, Inc. v. Henneford, 305 U.S. 434 (1939).
           A Washington gross receipts tax levied on the privilege of engag-
      ing in business in the state cannot constitutionally be imposed on the
      gross receipts of a marketing agent for a federation of fruit growers
      whose business consists of the marketing of fruit shipped from Wash-
      ington to places of sale in other states and foreign countries. Such a
      tax burdens interstate and foreign commerce contrary to Art. I, § 8, cl.
      3.
