435. McCarroll v. Dixie Lines, 309 U.S. 176 (1940).
           Gasoline carried by interstate motor busses through Arkansas for
      use as fuel in interstate transportation beyond the Arkansas line can-
      not be subject to an Arkansas tax imposed for maintenance of state
      highways and collected on every gallon of gasoline above 20 brought
      into the state in any motor vehicle for use in operating the same. The
      statute levying this tax unconstitutionally burdens interstate com-
      merce.
              Justices concurring: McReynolds, Stone, Hughes, C.J., Roberts, Reed (sepa-
                rately)
              Justices dissenting: Black, Frankfurter, Douglas

436. Best v. Maxwell, 311 U.S. 454 (1940).
           A North Carolina statute that levies an annual privilege tax of
      $250 on every person or corporation, not a regular retail merchant in
      the state, who displays samples in any hotel room or house rented for
      the purpose of securing retail orders, cannot be applied to a nonresi-
      dent merchant who took orders in the state and shipped interstate di-
      rectly to customers. In view of the imposition of a one dollar per year
      license tax collected from regular retail merchants, the enforcement of
      the statute as to nonresidents unconstitutionally discriminates in fa-
      vor of intrastate commerce contrary to Art. I, ยง 8, cl. 3.

437. Wood v. Lovett, 313 U.S. 362 (1941).
          When Arkansas, with the help of a statute curing irregularities in
      a tax proceeding, sold land under a tax title that was valid, subse-
      quent repeal of the curative statute impaired the obligation of con-
      tract (Art. I, ยง 10, cl. 1).
              Justices concurring: Hughes, C.J., Stone, Roberts, Reed, Frankfurter
              Justices dissenting: Black, Douglas, Murphy

438. Edwards v. California, 314 U.S. 160 (1941).
          A California statute making it a misdemeanor for anyone know-
      ingly to bring, or assist in bringing, into the state a nonresident, indi-
      gent person imposes an unconstitutional burden on interstate com-
      merce.
              Justices concurring: Stone, C.J., Roberts, Reed, Frankfurter, Byrnes, Douglas,
                Black, Murphy, Jackson would have rested the invalidity on ยง 1 of the Four-
                teenth Amendment.

439. Taylor v. Georgia, 315 U.S. 25 (1942).
          A Georgia statute that makes it a crime for any person to con-
      tract with another to perform services of any kind, and under such
      contract to obtain in advance money or other thing of value, with in-
