      tent not to perform such service, and providing further that failure to
      perform the service or to return the money, without good and suffi-
      cient cause, shall amount to presumptive evidence of intent, at the time
      of making the contract, not to perform such service, violates the Thir-
      teenth Amendment.

440. Skinner v. Oklahoma ex rel. Williamson, 316 U.S. 535 (1942).
           As applied to one convicted once of stealing chickens, and twice of
      robbery, an Oklahoma statute providing for the sterilization of ha-
      bitual criminals, other than those convicted of embezzlement, or viola-
      tion of prohibition and revenue laws, violates the Equal Protection Clause
      of the Fourteenth Amendment.
              Justices concurring specially: Stone, C.J., Jackson

441. Pacific Coast Dairy v. Department of Agriculture, 318 U.S. 285 (1943).
           A provision of the California Agricultural Code provided that the
      selling and delivery of milk “at less than the minimum wholesale, re-
      tail prices effective in a marketing area” was an unfair practice war-
      ranting revocation of license or prosecution. Sales and deliveries of milk
      to the War Department on a federal enclave within a state over which
      the United States has acquired exclusive jurisdiction are not subject
      to regulation under a state milk stabilization law.
              Justices concurring: Stone, C.J., Roberts, Black, Reed, Douglas, Jackson
              Justices dissenting: Frankfurter, Murphy

442. Mayo v. United States, 319 U.S. 441 (1943).
           The Florida Commercial Fertilizer Law, a comprehensive regula-
      tion of the sale or distribution of commercial fertilizer that required a
      label or stamp on each bag evidencing the payment of an inspection
      fee, could not constitutionally be applied to fertilizer that the United
      States owned and was distributing within the state pursuant to a pro-
      vision of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act. Federal
      instrumentalities are immune from state taxation and regulation un-
      less Congress provides otherwise, and Congress had not done so.

443. Taylor v. Mississippi, 319 U.S. 583 (1943).
           The General Laws of Mississippi, 1943, ch. 178, provided, in part,
      that the teaching and dissemination of printed matter designed to en-
      courage disloyalty to the national and state governments, and the dis-
      tribution of printed matter reasonably tending “to create an attitude
      of stubborn refusal to salute, honor, or respect the flag or Government
      of the United States, or of the State of Mississippi” was a felony. The
      Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution prohibits the imposition
      of punishment for: (1) urging and advising on religious grounds that
