      citizens refrain from saluting the flag; and (2) the communication of
      beliefs and opinion concerning domestic measures and trends in na-
      tional and world affairs, when this is without sinister purpose and not
      in advocacy of, or incitement to, subversive action against the nation
      or state and does not involve any clear and present danger to our in-
      stitutions or our government. Conviction under the statute for dissemi-
      nating literature reasonably tending to create an attitude of stubborn
      refusal to salute, honor or respect the national and state flags and gov-
      ernments denies the liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amend-
      ment.

444. Pollock v. Williams, 322 U.S. 4 (1944).
           Florida Statute of 1941, sec. 817.09 and sec. 817.10, made it a mis-
      demeanor to induce advances with intent to defraud by a promise to
      perform labor, and further made failure to perform labor for which money
      had been obtained prima facie evidence of intent to defraud. The stat-
      ute violates the Thirteenth Amendment and the Federal Antipeonage
      Act for it cannot be said that a plea of guilty is uninfluenced by the
      statute’s threat to convict by its prima facie evidence section.
              Justices concurring: Roberts, Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Murphy, Jackson,
                Rutledge
              Justices dissenting: Stone, C.J., Reed

445. United States v. Allegheny County, 322 U.S. 174 (1944).
          Pennsylvania law provided in part that “The following subjects and
      property shall be valued and assessed, and subject to taxation,” and
      that taxes are declared “to be a first lien on said property.” The effect
      of an ad valorem property tax is to increase the valuation of the land
      and buildings of a manufacturer by the value of machinery leased to
      him by the United States and is therefore a tax on property owned by
      the United States and violates the Constitution.
              Justices concurring: Stone, C.J., Black, Reed, Douglas, Murphy, Jackson, Rutledge
              Justices dissenting: Roberts, Frankfurter

446. McLeod v. J. E. Dilworth Co.,322 U.S. 327 (1944).
          The Commerce Clause prohibits the imposition of an Arkansas sales
      tax on sales to residents of the state that are consummated by accep-
      tance of orders in, and the shipments of goods from, another state, in
      which title passes upon delivery to the carrier.
              Justices concurring: Stone, C.J., Roberts, Reed, Frankfurter, Jackson
              Justices dissenting: Black, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge

447. Thomas v. Collins, 323 U.S. 516 (1945).
          A Texas statute required union organizers, before soliciting mem-
      bers, to obtain an organizer’s card from the Secretary of State. As ap-
