      plied in this case, the statute violates the First and Fourteenth Amend-
      ments because it imposes a prior restraint on free speech and free
      assembly. The First Amendment’s safeguards apply to business and eco-
      nomic activity, and restrictions of these activities can be justified only
      by clear and present danger to the public welfare.
              Justices concurring: Black, Douglas, Murphy, Jackson, Rutledge
              Justices dissenting: Stone, C.J., Roberts, Reed, Frankfurter

448. Hooven & Allison Co. v. Evatt, 324 U.S. 652 (1945).
          An Ohio ad valorem tax on Philippine importations violated the
      constitutional prohibition of state taxation of imports because the place
      from which the imported articles were brought is not a part of the
      United States in the constitutional sense.
              Justices concurring: Stone, C.J., Roberts, Reed (dissenting in part), Frankfurter,
                Douglas (concurring in part), Murphy (concurring in part), Jackson, Rutledge
                (concurring in part)
              Justice dissenting: Black

449. Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona ex rel. Sullivan,325 U.S. 761 (1945).
          The Arizona Train Limit Law makes it unlawful to operate a train
      of more than fourteen passenger or seventy freight cars. As applied to
      interstate trains, this law contravenes the Commerce Clause. The state
      regulation passes beyond what is plainly essential for safety, as it does
      not appear that it will lessen, rather than increase, the danger of ac-
      cident.
              Justices concurring: Stone, C.J., Roberts, Reed, Frankfurter, Murphy, Jackson,
                Rutledge
              Justices dissenting: Black, Douglas

450. Marsh v. Alabama, 326 U.S. 501 (1946).
          Alabama law makes it a crime to enter or remain on the premises
      of another after having been warned not to do so. A state, consistently
      with the freedom of religion and the press guaranteed by the First
      and Fourteenth Amendments, cannot impose criminal punishment on
      a person for distributing religious literature on the sidewalk of a company-
      owned town contrary to regulations of the town’s management, where
      the town and its shopping district are freely accessible to and freely
      used by the public in general.
              Justices concurring: Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge
              Justices dissenting: Stone, C.J., Reed, Burton

451. Tucker v. Texas, 326 U.S. 517 (1946).
           The Texas Penal Code makes it an offense for any “peddler or hawker
      of goods or merchandise” willfully to refuse to leave premises after hav-
