      ing been notified to do so by the owner or possessor thereof. A state,
      consistently with the freedom of religion and the press guaranteed by
      the First and Fourteenth Amendments, cannot impose criminal pun-
      ishment upon a person engaged in religious activities and distributing
      religious literature in a village owned by the United States under a
      congressional program designed to provide housing for workers en-
      gaged in national defense activities, where the village is freely acces-
      sible and open to the public.
              Justices concurring: Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge
              Justices dissenting: Stone, C.J., Reed, Burton

452. Republic Pictures Corp. v. Kappler, 327 U.S. 757 (1946).
          An Iowa statute, insofar as it required actions on claims arising
      under a federal statute not containing any period of limitations to be
      commenced within six months, denied equal protection of law when
      enforced as to one seeking to recover under the Federal Fair Labor
      Standards Act; a state may not discriminate against rights accruing
      under federal laws by imposing as to them a special period of limita-
      tions not applicable to other claims.

453. Morgan v. Virginia, 328 U.S. 373 (1946).
          Virginia law required motor carriers, both interstate and intra-
      state, to separate without discrimination white and colored passen-
      gers in their motor buses so that contiguous seats would not be occu-
      pied by persons of different races at the same time. Even though Congress
      has enacted no legislation on the subject, the state provisions are in-
      valid as applied to passengers in vehicles moving interstate because
      they burden interstate commerce.
              Justices concurring: Black (separately), Reed, Frankfurter (separately), Douglas,
                Murphy, Rutledge
              Justice dissenting: Burton

454. Richfield Oil Corp. v. State Bd. of Equalization,329 U.S. 69 (1946).
           The California Retail Sales Tax, measured by gross receipts, can-
      not constitutionally be collected on exports in the form of oil delivered
      from appellant’s dockside tanks to a New Zealand vessel in a Califor-
      nia port for transportation to Auckland pursuant to a contract of sale
      with the New Zealand Government.
              Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Reed, Frankfurter, Douglas, Jackson, Rutledge,
                Burton
              Justice dissenting: Black

455. Order of Travelers v. Wolfe, 331 U.S. 586 (1947).
          A South Dakota Law setting a six-year statute of limitations for
      commencing actions on contract and declaring void every stipulation
