      in a contract that reduces the time during which a party may sue to
      enforce his rights cannot be applied to an action brought in South Da-
      kota for benefits arising under the constitution of a fraternal benefit
      society incorporated in Ohio and licensed to do business in South Da-
      kota. The claimant is bound by the limitation prescribed in the soci-
      ety’s constitution barring actions on claims six months after disallow-
      ance by the society, and South Dakota is required under the Federal
      Constitution to give full faith and credit to the public acts of Ohio.
             Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Frankfurter, Reed, Jackson, Burton
             Justices dissenting: Black, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge

456. United States v. California, 332 U.S. 19 (1947).
           California statutes granting permits to California residents to pros-
      pect for oil and gas offshore, both within and outside a three-mile mar-
      ginal belt, are void. California is not the owner of the three-mile mar-
      ginal belt along its coast; the Federal Government rather than the State
      has paramount rights in and power over that belt, and full dominion
      over the resources of the soil under that water area. The United States
      is therefore entitled to a decree enjoining California and all persons
      claiming under it from continuing to trespass upon the area in viola-
      tion of the rights of the United States.
             Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Black, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge, Burton
             Justices dissenting: Reed, Frankfurter

457. Sipuel v. Board of Regents, 332 U.S. 631 (1948).
           Oklahoma constitutional and statutory provisions barring Ne-
      groes from the University of Oklahoma Law School violate the Equal
      Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because the Univer-
      sity Law School is the only institution for legal education maintained
      by the state.

458. Oyama v. California, 332 U.S. 633 (1948).
           The California Alien Land Law, forbidding aliens ineligible for Ameri-
      can citizenship to acquire, own, occupy, lease or transfer agricultural
      land, and providing for escheat of any property acquired in violation
      of the statutes, cannot constitutionally by applied to effect an escheat
      of agricultural lands acquired in the name of a minor American citi-
      zen with funds contributed by his father, a Japanese alien ineligible
      for naturalization. The statute deprived the son of the equal protec-
      tion of the laws and of his privileges as an American citizen, in viola-
      tion of the Fourteenth Amendment.
             Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge
             Justices dissenting: Reed, Jackson, Burton
