459. Winters v. New York, 333 U.S. 507 (1948).
           A New York law creating a misdemeanor offense for publishing,
      selling, or otherwise distributing “any book, pamphlet, magazine, news-
      paper or other printed matter devoted to the publication, and princi-
      pally made up of criminal laws, police reports, or accounts of criminal
      deeds, or pictures, or stories of deeds of bloodshed, lust or crime . . . ,”
      as construed by the state Court of Appeals to prohibit distribution of
      a magazine principally made up of news or stories of criminal deeds
      of bloodshed or lust so massed as to become a vehicle for inciting vio-
      lent and depraved crimes against the person, is so vague and indefi-
      nite as to violate the Fourteenth Amendment by prohibiting acts within
      the protection of the guaranty of free speech and press.
             Justices concurring: Vinson, Black, Reed, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge
             Justices dissenting: Frankfurter, Jackson, Burton

460. Toomer v. Witsell, 334 U.S. 385 (1948).
           A South Carolina law requiring a license of shrimp boat own-
      ers, the fee for which was $25 per boat for residents and $2,500
      per boat for nonresidents, plainly discriminated against nonresi-
      dents and violated the privileges and immunities clause of Art. IV,
      § 2. The same law unconstitutionally burdened interstate commerce
      by requiring all boats licensed to trawl for shrimp in South Caro-
      lina waters to dock in the state and to unload their catch, pack,
      and properly stamp the catch before shipping or transporting it to
      another state.
             Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Reed, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge, Burton,
               Black (dissenting in part), Frankfurter (dissenting in part), Jackson (dissent-
               ing in part)

461. Takahashi v. Fish & Game Comm’n, 334 U.S. 410 (1948).
           California’s requirement that every person bringing fish ashore in
      the state for sale obtain a commercial fishing license, but denying such
      a license to any person ineligible for citizenship, precluded a resident
      Japanese alien from earning his living as a commercial fisherman in
      the ocean waters off the state and was invalid both under the Equal
      Protection Clause and a federal statute (42 U.S.C. § 1981).
             Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Murphy, Rutledge,
               Burton
             Justices dissenting: Reed, Jackson

462. Greyhound Lines v. Mealey, 334 U.S. 653 (1948).
           New York constitutionally may tax gross receipts of a common car-
      rier derived from transportation apportioned as to mileage within the
