      state, but collection of the tax on gross receipts from that portion of
      the mileage outside the state unduly burdens interstate commerce in
      violation of the Commerce Clause.
              Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Reed, Frankfurter, Jackson, Rutledge, Bur-
                ton
              Justices dissenting: Black, Douglas, Murphy

463. H. P. Hood & Sons v. Du Mond, 336 U.S. 525 (1949).
            Denial of a license under the New York Agricultural and Market
      Law violated the Commerce Clause and the Federal Agricultural Mar-
      keting Act where the denial was on the ground that the expanded fa-
      cilities would reduce the supply of milk for local markets and result
      in destructive competition in a market already adequately served.
              Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Reed, Douglas, Jackson, Burton
              Justices dissenting: Black, Frankfurter, Murphy, Rutledge

464. Schnell v. Davis, 336 U.S. 933 (1949).
           The Boswell Amendment to the Alabama Constitution, which vested
      unlimited authority in electoral officials to determine whether prospec-
      tive voters satisfied the literacy requirement, violated the Fifteenth
      Amendment and the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amend-
      ment.

465. Union Nat’l Bank v. Lamb, 337 U.S. 38 (1949).
           Missouri law, providing that a judgment could not be revived af-
      ter ten years from its rendition, could not be invoked, consistently with
      the Full Faith and Credit Clause, to prevent enforcement in a Mis-
      souri court of a Colorado judgment obtained in 1927 and revived in
      Colorado in 1946.
              Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Reed, Douglas, Murphy, Jackson, Burton
              Justices dissenting: Black, Frankfurter, Rutledge

466. Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Glander, 337 U.S. 562 (1949).
           The Ohio ad valorem tax levied on accounts receivable of foreign
      corporations derived from sales of goods manufactured within the state,
      but exempting receivables owned by residents and domestic corpora-
      tions, denied foreign corporations equal protection of the laws in viola-
      tion of the Fourteenth Amendment. The tax was not saved from inva-
      lidity by the “reciprocity” provision of the statute imposing it, because
      this plan was not one that, by credit or otherwise, protected the non-
      resident or foreign corporation against discrimination.
              Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Reed, Frankfurter, Murphy, Jackson, Rutledge,
                Burton
              Justices dissenting: Black, Douglas
