467. Treichler v. Wisconsin, 338 U.S. 251 (1949).
          Insofar as the Wisconsin emergency tax on inheritances is mea-
      sured by tangible property located outside the state, the tax violates
      the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
             Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Reed, Frankfurter, Douglas, Burton, Clark,
               Minton
             Justice dissenting: Black

468. Mullane v. Central Hanover Bank & Trust Co., 339 U.S. 306 (1950).
           Notice by publication, as authorized by the New York Banking Law
      for purposes of enabling banks managing common trust funds to ob-
      tain a judicial settlement of accounts binding on all having an inter-
      est in such funds, is not sufficient under the Due Process Clause of
      the Fourteenth Amendment for determining property rights of per-
      sons whose whereabouts are known.
             Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Black, Reed, Jackson, Clark, Minton, Frank-
               furter
             Justice dissenting: Burton

469. Sweatt v. Painter, 339 U.S. 629 (1950).
           Texas constitutional and statutory provisions restricting admis-
      sion to the University of Texas Law School to white students violate
      the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because Ne-
      gro students denied admission are afforded educational facilities infe-
      rior to those available at the University.

470. United States v. Louisiana, 339 U.S. 699 (1950).
           The Louisiana Constitution provides that the Louisiana boundary
      includes all islands within three leagues of the coast, and Louisiana
      statutes provide that the state’s southern boundary is 27 marine miles
      from the shore line. Because the three-mile belt off the shore is in the
      domain of the Nation rather than that of the states, it follows that
      the area claimed by Louisiana extending 24 miles seaward beyond the
      three-mile belt is also in the domain of the Nation rather than of Loui-
      siana. The marginal sea is a national, not a state, concern and na-
      tional rights are paramount in that area. The United States, there-
      fore, is entitled to a decree upholding such paramount rights and enjoining
      Louisiana and all persons claiming under it from trespassing upon the
      area in violation of the rights of the United States, and requiring Loui-
      siana to account for the money derived by it from the area after June
      23, 1947.
             Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Burton
             Justices dissenting: Reed, Minton
