471. United States v. Texas, 339 U.S. 707 (1950).
          Notwithstanding provisions in Texas laws under which Texas ex-
      tended its boundary to a line in the Gulf of Mexico 24 marine miles
      beyond the three-mile limit and asserted ownership of the bed within
      that area and to the outer edge of the continental shelf, the United
      States is entitled to a decree sustaining its paramount rights to domin-
      ion of natural resources in the area, beyond the low-water mark on
      the coast of Texas and outside inland waters. Any claim that Texas
      may have asserted over the marginal belt when it existed as an inde-
      pendent Republic was relinquished upon its admission into the Union
      on an equal footing with the other states.
             Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Burton
             Justices dissenting: Reed, Minton

472. McLaurin v. Oklahoma State Regents, 339 U.S. 637 (1950).
           Oklahoma law required segregation in educational facilities at in-
      stitutions of higher learning. As applied to assign an African Ameri-
      can student to a special row in the classroom, to a special table in the
      library, and to a special table in the cafeteria, the law impaired and
      inhibited the student’s ability to study, engage in discussion, exchange
      views with other students, and in general to learn his profession. The
      conditions under which the student was required to receive his educa-
      tion deprived him of his right to equal protection guaranteed by the
      Fourteenth Amendment.

473. Norton Co. v. Department of Revenue, 340 U.S. 534 (1951).
          The Illinois occupation tax, levied on gross receipts from sales of
      tangible personal property, cannot be collected on orders sent directly
      by the customer to the head officer of a corporation in Massachusetts
      and shipped directly to the customers from that office. These sales are
      interstate in nature and are immune from state taxation by virtue of
      the Commerce Clause.
             Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Black (dissenting in part), Reed (dissenting
               in part), Frankfurter, Douglas (dissenting in part), Jackson, Burton, Clark
               (dissenting in part), Minton

474. Spector Motor Serv. v. O’Connor, 340 U.S. 602 (1951).
          A Connecticut franchise tax for the privilege of doing business in
      the state, computed at a nondiscriminatory rate on that part of a for-
      eign corporation’s net income that is reasonably attributed to its busi-
      ness activities within the state and not levied as compensation for the
      use of highways, or collected in lieu of an ad valorem property tax, or
      imposed as a fee for inspection, or as a tax on sales or use, cannot
