      constitutionally be applied to a foreign motor carrier engaged exclu-
      sively in interstate trucking. A state cannot exact a franchise tax for
      the privilege of engaging in interstate commerce.
              Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Reed, Frankfurter, Jackson, Burton, Minton
              Justices dissenting: Black, Douglas, Clark

475. Hughes v. Fetter, 341 U.S. 609 (1951).
          The Wisconsin Wrongful Death Act, authorizing recovery “only for
      a death caused in this State,” and thereby blocking recovery under stat-
      utes of other states, must give way to the strong unifying principle
      embodied in the Full Faith and Credit Clause looking toward maxi-
      mum enforcement in each state of the obligations or rights created or
      recognized by the statutes of sister states.
              Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Black, Douglas, Burton, Clark
              Justices dissenting: Reed, Frankfurter, Jackson, Minton

476. Standard Oil Co. v. Peck, 342 U.S. 382 (1952).
           When boats and barges of an Ohio corporation used in transport-
      ing oil along the Mississippi River do not pick up or discharge oil in
      Ohio, and, apart from stopping therein occasionally for fuel and re-
      pairs, are almost continuously outside Ohio and are subject, on an ap-
      portionment basis, to taxation by other states, an Ohio tax on their
      full value violates the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amend-
      ment.
              Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Reed, Clark, Frankfurter, Douglas, Jackson,
                Burton
              Justices dissenting: Black, Minton

477. Memphis Steam Laundry v. Stone, 342 U.S. 389 (1952).
           A Mississippi privilege tax, levied on the privilege of soliciting busi-
      ness for a laundry not licensed in the state and collected at the rate
      of $50 on each vehicle used in the business cannot validly be imposed
      on a foreign corporation operating an establishment in Tennessee and
      doing no business in Mississippi other than sending trucks thereto to
      solicit business, and pick up, deliver, and collect for laundry. A tax so
      administered burdens interstate commerce.
              Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Reed, Frankfurter, Douglas, Jackson, Burton,
                Clark, Minton
              Justice dissenting: Black

478. First Nat’l Bank v. United Air Lines, 342 U.S. 396 (1952).
           Illinois law provided that “no action shall be brought or pros-
      ecuted in this State to recover damages for a death occurring outside
      of this State where a right of action for such death exists under the
