      laws of the place where such death occurred and services of process in
      such suit may be had upon the defendant in such place.” In a suit
      brought in a federal district court in Illinois on grounds of diversity of
      citizenship to recover under the Utah death statute for a death occur-
      ring in Utah, the Illinois statute was held to violate the Full Faith
      and Credit clause.
             Justices concurring: Vinson, C.J., Black, Douglas, Jackson, Burton, Clark, Minton
             Justices dissenting: Reed, Frankfurter

479. Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson, 343 U.S. 495 (1952).
           Insofar as the New York Education Law forbids the commercial
      showing of any motion picture without a license and authorizes denial
      of a license on a censor’s conclusion that a film is “sacrilegious,” it is
      void as a prior restraint on freedom of speech and of the press under
      the First Amendment, made applicable to the states by the Due Pro-
      cess Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The statute authorized des-
      ignated officers to refuse to license the showing of any film that is ob-
      scene, indecent, immoral, inhuman, sacrilegious, or the exhibition of
      which would tend to corrupt morals or incite to crime.

480. Kedroff v. St. Nicholas Cathedral, 344 U.S. 94 (1952).
           As construed and applied, Art. 5–C of the New York Religious Cor-
      porations Laws, which authorized transfer of administrative control of
      the Russian Orthodox churches of North America from the Supreme
      Church Authority in Moscow to the authorities selected by a conven-
      tion of the North American churches, is invalid. Legislation that deter-
      mines, in a hierarchical church, ecclesiastical administration or the ap-
      pointment of the clergy, or transfers control of churches from one group
      to another, interferes with the free exercise of religion in violation of
      the First Amendment.
             Justices concurring: Black, Douglas, Frankfurter, Vinson, C.J., Reed, Burton,
               Clark, Minton
             Justice dissenting: Jackson

481. Wieman v. Updegraff, 344 U.S. 183 (1952).
           Oklahoma law requires each state officer and employee, as a con-
      dition of his employment, to take a “loyalty oath,” that he is not, and
      has not been for the preceding five years, a member of any organiza-
      tion listed by the Attorney General of the United States as “commu-
      nist front” or “subversive.” As construed, this statute excludes persons
      from state employment on the basis of membership in an organiza-
      tion, regardless of their knowledge concerning the activities and pur-
      poses of the organization, and therefore violates the Due Process Clause
      of the Fourteenth Amendment.
