482. Kern-Limerick, Inc. v. Scurlock, 347 U.S. 110 (1954).
           The Arkansas Gross Receipts Tax, levied on the gross receipts of
      sales within the state, cannot be applied to transactions under which
      private contractors procured in Arkansas two tractors for use in con-
      structing a naval ammunition depot for the United States under a cost-
      plus-fixed-fee contract. Applicable federal laws provide that in procur-
      ing articles required for accomplishment of the agreement, the contractor
      shall act as purchasing agent for the Government and that the govern-
      ment not only acquires title but shall be directly liable to the vendor
      for the purchase price. The tax is void as a levy on the Federal Gov-
      ernment.
              Justices concurring: Reed, Frankfurter, Jackson, Burton, Clark, Minton
              Justices dissenting: Warren, C.J., Black, Douglas

483. Michigan-Wisconsin Pipe Line Co. v. Calvert, 347 U.S. 157 (1954).
           A Texas tax on the occupation of “gathering gas” measured by the
      entire volume of gas “taken,” as applied to an interstate natural gas
      pipeline company, where the taxable incidence is the taking of gas from
      the outlet of an independent gasoline plant within the state for the
      purpose of immediate interstate transmission, violates the Commerce
      Clause. As here applied, the state delayed the incidence of the tax be-
      yond the step where production and processing have ceased and trans-
      mission in interstate commerce has begun, so that the tax is not lev-
      ied on the capture or production of the gas, but on its introduction
      into interstate commerce after production, gathering and processing.

484. Miller Bros., Co. v. Maryland, 347 U.S. 340 (1954).
           Where residents of nearby Maryland make purchase from appel-
      lant in Delaware, some deliveries being made in Maryland by com-
      mon carrier and some by appellant’s truck, seizure of the appellant’s
      truck in Maryland and holding it liable for the Maryland use tax on
      all goods sold in Delaware to Maryland customers is a denial of due
      process. The Delaware corporation has not subjected itself to the tax-
      ing power of Maryland and has not afforded Maryland a jurisdiction
      or power to impose upon it a liability for collections of the Maryland
      use tax.
              Justices concurring: Reed, Frankfurter, Jackson, Burton, Minton
              Justices dissenting: Warren, C.J., Black, Douglas, Clark

485. Railway Express Agency v. Virginia, 347 U.S. 359 (1954).
          In addition to “taxes on property of express companies,” Virginia
      provided that “for the privilege of doing business in the State,” ex-
      press companies shall pay an “annual license tax” upon gross receipts
      earned in the state “on business passing through, into, or out of, this
