      each or provision for reimbursement of each bank by its depositors for
      the tax, is void as a tax upon obligations of the Federal Government
      (Art. VI, cl. 2).

492. Griffin v. Illinois, 351 U.S. 12 (1956).
           Illinois statutes provide that a writ of error may be prosecuted on
      a “mandatory record” kept by the court clerk and consisting of the in-
      dictment, arraignment, plea, verdict, and sentence. The “mandatory re-
      cord” can be obtained free of charge by an indigent defendant. In such
      instances review is limited to errors on the face of the mandatory re-
      cord, and there is no review of trial errors such as an erroneous rul-
      ing on admission of evidence. No provision was made whereby a con-
      victed person in a non-capital case can obtain a bill of exceptions or
      report of the trial proceedings, which by statute is furnished free only
      to indigent defendants sentenced to death. Griffin, an indigent defen-
      dant convicted of robbery, accordingly was refused a free certified copy
      of the entire record, including a stenographic transcript of the proceed-
      ings, and therefore was unable to perfect his appeal founded upon
      nonconstitutional errors of the trial court. Petitioner was held to have
      been denied due process of law and the equal protection of the laws
      guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
              Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Clark
              Justices dissenting: Reed, Burton, Minton, Harlan

493. Covey v. Town of Somers, 351 U.S. 141 (1956).
           A New York statutory procedure that sanctioned notice by mail
      together with the posting of a copy of said notice at a local post office
      and the publication thereof in two local newspapers of proceedings to
      foreclose a lien for delinquent real estate taxes, was constitutionally
      inadequate and effected a taking of property without due process when
      employed in the foreclosure of the property of a mentally incompetent
      woman resident in the taxing jurisdiction and known by the officials
      thereof to be financially responsible but incapable of handling her af-
      fairs.
              Justice concurring: Frankfurter (separately)

494. Walker v. Hutchinson City, 352 U.S. 112 (1956).
           Kansas statutes permitted condemnation proceedings to be insti-
      tuted by notice either in writing or by publication in an official city
      paper. Where the commissioners, appointed to determine compensa-
      tion in condemnation of appellant’s land, gave no notice of a hearing
      except by publication in the official city newspaper, though appellant
      was a resident of Kansas and his name was known to the city and on
      its official records, and there was no reason why direct notice could
