      not be given, the newspaper publication alone did not measure up to
      the quality of notice the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amend-
      ment requires as a prerequisite to this type of proceeding.
              Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Black, Reed, Douglas, Clark, Harlan
              Justices dissenting: Frankfurter, Burton

495. Butler v. Michigan, 352 U.S. 380 (1957).
           The Michigan Penal Code proscribed the sale to the general read-
      ing public of any book containing obscene language “tending to the cor-
      ruption of the morals of youth.” When invoked to convict a proprietor
      who sold a book having such a potential effect on youth to an adult
      police officer, the statute violated the due process clause of the Four-
      teenth Amendment. Thus enforced, the statute would permit the adult
      population of Michigan to read only what is fit for children.

496. Gayle v. Browder, 352 U.S. 903 (1956).
           Alabama statutes and Montgomery City ordinances that required
      segregation of “white” and “colored” races on motor buses in the city
      violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

497. Morey v. Doud, 354 U.S. 457 (1957).
          A provision of the Illinois Community Currency Exchange Act ex-
      empting money orders of a named company, the American Express Com-
      pany, from the requirement that any firm selling or issuing money or-
      ders in the state must secure a license and submit to state regulation,
      denies equal protection of the laws to those entities that are not ex-
      empted. Although the Equal Protection Clause does not require that
      every state regulation apply to all in the same business, a statutory
      discrimination must be based on differences that are reasonably re-
      lated to the purposes of the statute.
              Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Douglas, Burton, Clark, Brennan, Whit-
                taker
              Justices dissenting: Black, Frankfurter, Harlan

498. Eskridge v. Washington Prison Bd., 357 U.S. 214 (1958).
           Denial of a free trial transcript to an indigent criminal defendant
      pursuant to a Washington statute that authorized a trial judge to fur-
      nish a transcript to an indigent defendant if in the judge’s opinion “jus-
      tice will thereby be promoted” denied equal protection and due pro-
      cess because the indigent defendant did not have the same opportunity
      that was available to those who could afford the transcripts to have
      his case reviewed by an appellate court.
              Justices concurring: Warren, C.J., Douglas, Clark, Black, Burton, Brennan
              Justices dissenting: Harlan, Whittaker
