499. Speiser v. Randall, 357 U.S. 513 (1958).
           The California statutory provisions exacting as a prerequisite for
      property tax exemption that applicants therefor swear that they do
      not advocate the forcible overthrow of federal or state governments or
      the support of a foreign government against the United States during
      hostilities are unconstitutional insofar as they are enforced by proce-
      dures placing upon the taxpayer the burden of proving that he is not
      guilty of advocating that which is forbidden. Such procedures deprive
      the taxpayer of freedom of speech without the procedural safeguards
      required by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
             Justices concurring: Black, Frankfurter, Douglas, Burton, Harlan, Brennan, Whit-
               taker
             Justice dissenting: Clark
           First Unitarian Church v. City of Los Angeles, 357 U.S. 545 (1958).
      Enforcement of the same oath requirement through statutory proce-
      dures that place upon taxpayers the burden of proving nonadvocacy vio-
      lates the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Same divi-
      sion of Justices as in Speiser v. Randall.

500. Bibb v. Navajo Freight Lines, 359 U.S. 520 (1959).
           An Illinois statute that requires trucks and trailers operating on
      state highways to be equipped with specified type of rear fender mud-
      guard, which is different from those permitted in at least 45 other states,
      and which would seriously interfere with “interline operations” of mo-
      tor carriers, cannot validly be applied to interstate motor carriers cer-
      tified by the Interstate Commerce Commission because to do so unrea-
      sonably burdens interstate commerce.
             Justices concurring: Harlan (separately), Stewart (separately)

501. State Athletic Comm’n v. Dorsey, 359 U.S. 533 (1959).
          A Louisiana statute prohibiting athletic contests between Negroes
      and white persons violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Four-
      teenth Amendment.

502. Kingsley Pictures Corp. v. Regents, 360 U.S. 684 (1959).
           As construed and applied, the New York Education Law, which re-
      quires denial of a license to show a motion picture “presenting adul-
      tery as being right and desirable for certain people under certain cir-
      cumstances,” is unconstitutional. Refusal of a license to show a motion
      picture found to portray adultery alluringly as proper behavior vio-
      lates the freedom to advocate ideas guaranteed by the First Amend-
      ment and protected by the Fourteenth Amendment from infringement
      by the states.
