             Justices concurring: Black (separately), Frankfurter (separately), Douglas
               (separately), Clark (separately), Harlan (separately)

503. Faubus v. Aaron, 361 U.S. 197 (1959).
           Arkansas statutes that empowered the Governor to close the pub-
      lic schools and to hold an election as to whether the schools were to
      be integrated, as well as to withhold public moneys allocated to such
      schools on the occasion of their closing and to make such funds avail-
      able to other public schools or nonprofit private schools to which pu-
      pils from a closed school might transfer, violated the Due Process and
      Equal Protection Clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.

504. Phillips Chemical Co. v. Dumas School Dist., 361 U.S. 376 (1960).
           Texas statutes discriminated against the United States in viola-
      tion of Article VI, clause 2, by levying a tax on federally owned land
      and improvements used and occupied by a private concern that was
      more burdensome than the tax imposed on similarly situated lessees
      of property owned by Texas and its subdivisions.
             Justices concurring: Brennan, Clark, Black, Douglas, Stewart, Warren, C.J.,
               Whittaker, Harlan, Frankfurter (separately)

505. Rohr Aircraft Corp. v. San Diego County, 362 U.S. 628 (1960).
           Property taxes assessed under California law could not be lev-
      ied on real estate owned by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation
      after the latter had declared the property to be surplus and surren-
      dered it to the War Assets Administration for disposal; this exemp-
      tion arose even before execution of a quitclaim deed transferring
      title from the RFC to the United States and even though a prop-
      erty had been leased to a private lessee in the name of both the
      RFC and the United States.
             Justices concurring: Clark, Warren, C.J., Harlan, Stewart, Frankfurter, Brennan,
               Whittaker
             Justices dissenting: Douglas, Black

506. Gomillion v. Lightfoot, 364 U.S. 339 (1960).
          An Alabama statute that altered the boundaries of the City of
      Tuskegee in such manner as to eliminate all but four or five of its 400
      African American voters without eliminating any white voter violated
      the Fifteenth Amendment.
             Justice concurring: Whittaker (separately)

507. Shelton v. Tucker, 364 U.S. 479 (1960).
           An Arkansas statute that required every school teacher, as a con-
      dition of employment in state-supported schools and colleges, to file
