      an affidavit listing every organization to which he had belonged or con-
      tributed within the preceding five years deprived teachers of as-
      sociational freedom guaranteed by the Due Process Clause of the Four-
      teenth Amendment.
             Justices concurring: Stewart, Warren, C.J., Brennan, Douglas, Black
             Justices dissenting: Frankfurter, Clark, Harlan, Whittaker

508. Bush v. Orleans Parish School Bd., 364 U.S. 500 (1961).
           The Louisiana interposition statute that averred that the decision
      in the school segregation case (Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S.
      483 (1954)) constituted usurpation of state power and that interposed
      the sovereignty of the state against enforcement of that decision did
      not assert “a constitutional doctrine,” and if taken seriously, is legal
      defiance of constitutional authority.

509. Orleans Parish School Bd. v. Bush, 365 U.S. 569 (1961).
           Louisiana statutes that (1) provided for segregation of races in pub-
      lic schools and the withholding of funds from integrated schools; (2)
      conferred on the Governor the right to close all schools upon the inte-
      gration of any one of them; and (3) directed the Governor to super-
      sede a school board under a court order to desegregate and take over
      management of public schools, denied equal protection of the laws.

510. Ferguson v. Georgia, 365 U.S. 570 (1961).
          When, because a Georgia law that granted a defendant in a crimi-
      nal trial the right to make an unsworn statement to the jury without
      subjecting himself to cross-examination, defendant’s counsel was de-
      nied the right to ask him any question when he took the stand to make
      his unsworn statement, such application of the Georgia law deprived
      the defendant of the effective assistance of counsel without due pro-
      cess of law.
             Justices concurring: Frankfurter (separately), Clark (separately)

511. Louisiana ex rel. Gremillion v. NAACP, 366 U.S. 293 (1961).
           A Louisiana statute that prohibited any “non-trading” association
      from doing business in Louisiana if it is affiliated with any “foreign or
      out-of-state non-trading” association, any of the officers or directors of
      which are members of subversive organizations as cited by a House
      committee or by the United States Attorney General, and that re-
      quired every non-trading association with an out-of-state affiliate to
      file annually an affidavit that none of the officers of the affiliate is a
      member of such organizations, was void for vagueness and violated of
      due process.
