ated ones,” which was expressed in the Tenth Amendment. Thus,
although it had earlier rejected the commandeering of legislative
assistance, the Court now made clear that administrative officers
and resources were also fenced off from federal power.
    The scope of the rule thus expounded was unclear. Particularly,
Justice O’Connor in concurrence observed that Congress retained
the power to enlist the states through contractual arrangements and
on a voluntary basis. More pointedly, she stated that “the Court ap-
propriately refrains from deciding whether other purely ministerial
reporting requirements imposed by Congress on state and local au-
thorities pursuant to its Commerce Clause powers are similarly in-
valid.” 84
    A partial answer was provided in Reno v. Condon,85 in which
the Court upheld the Driver’s Privacy Protection Act of 1994 against
a charge that it offended the anti-commandeering rule of New York
and Printz. The Act in general limits disclosure and resale without
a driver’s consent of personal information contained in the records
of state motor vehicle departments, and requires disclosure of that
information for specified government record-keeping purposes. While
conceding that the Act “will require time and effort on the part of
state employees,” the Court found this imposition permissible be-
cause the Act regulates state activities directly rather than requir-
ing states to regulate private activities.86

Federal Instrumentalities and Personnel and State Police
 Power
    Federal instrumentalities and agencies have never enjoyed the
same degree of immunity from state police regulation as from state
taxation. The Court has looked to the nature of each regulation to
determine whether it is compatible with the functions committed
by Congress to the federal agency. This problem has arisen most
often with reference to the applicability of state laws to the opera-
tion of national banks. Two correlative propositions have governed
the decisions in these cases. The first was stated by Justice Miller
in National Bank v. Commonwealth.87 “[National banks] are sub-
ject to the laws of the State, and are governed in their daily course
of business far more by the laws of the State than of the nation.
All their contracts are governed and construed by State laws. Their
     84 521 U.S. at 936 (citing 42 U.S.C. § 5779(a)) (requiring state and local law en-

forcement agencies to report cases of missing children to the Department of Jus-
tice).
     85 528 U.S. 141 (2000).
     86 528 U.S. at 150–51.
     87 76 U.S. (9 Wall.) 353 (1870).
