are attributes of sovereignty attaching to every state government
which may not be impaired by Congress, not because Congress may
lack an affirmative grant of legislative authority to reach the mat-
ter, but because the Constitution prohibits it from exercising the
authority in that manner.” 40 The standard, apparently, in judging
between permissible and impermissible federal regulation, is whether
there is federal interference with “functions essential to separate
and independent existence.” 41 In the context of this case, state de-
cisions with respect to the pay of their employees and the hours to
be worked were essential aspects of their “freedom to structure in-
tegral operations in areas of traditional governmental functions.” 42
The line of cases exemplified by United States v. California was dis-
tinguished and preserved on the basis that the state activities there
regulated were so unlike the traditional activities of a state that
Congress could reach them; 43 Case v. Bowles was held distinguish-
able on the basis that Congress had acted pursuant to its war pow-
ers and to have rejected the power would have impaired national
defense; 44 Fry was distinguished on the bases that it upheld emer-
gency legislation tailored to combat a serious national emergency,
the means were limited in time and effect, the freeze did not dis-
place state discretion in structuring operations or force a restructur-
ing, and the federal action “operated to reduce the pressure upon
state budgets rather than increase them.” 45 Wirtz was overruled; it

because of the breadth of the commerce power. But when he asserts that, say, the
First or Fifth Amendment bars congressional action concededly within its commerce
power, one interposes an affirmative constitutional defense that has a chance of suc-
cess. It was the Justice’s view that the state was “asserting an affirmative constitu-
tional right, inherent in its capacity as a State, to be free from such congressionally
asserted authority.” Id. at 553. But whence the affirmative barrier? “[I]t is not the
Tenth Amendment by its terms. . . .” Id. at 557 (emphasis supplied). Rather, the Amend-
ment was an example of the Framers’ understanding that the sovereignty of the
states imposed an implied affirmative barrier to the assertion of otherwise valid con-
gressional powers. Id. at 557–59. But the difficulty with this construction is that the
equivalence that Justice Rehnquist sought to establish lies not between an indi-
vidual asserting a constitutional limit on delegated powers and a state asserting
the same thing, but is rather between an individual asserting a lack of authority
and a state asserting a lack of authority; this equivalence is evident on the face of
the Tenth Amendment, which states that the powers not delegated to the United
States “are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.” (emphasis sup-
plied). The states are thereby accorded no greater interest in restraining the exer-
cise of nondelegated power than are the people. See Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262
U.S. 447 (1923).
     40 National League of Cities v. Usery, 426 U.S. 833, 845 (1976).
     41 426 U.S. at 845.
     42 426 U.S. at 852.
     43 426 U.S. at 854.
     44 426 U.S. at 854 n.18.
     45 426 U.S. at 852–53.
