rather than increase them.” 53 In his concurrence, Justice Blackmun
suggested his lack of agreement with “certain possible implica-
tions” of the opinion and recast it as a “balancing approach” that
“does not outlaw federal power in areas such as environmental pro-
tection, where the federal interest is demonstrably greater and where
state facility compliance with imposed federal standards would be
essential.” 54
     The Court overruled National League of Cities in Garcia v. San
Antonio Metropolitan Transit Authority,55 and seemingly returned
to the conception of federal supremacy embodied in Wirtz and Fry.
For the most part, the Court indicated, states must seek protection
from the impact of federal regulation in the political processes, and
not in any limitations imposed on the commerce power or found in
the Tenth Amendment. Justice Blackmun’s opinion for the Court in
Garcia concluded that the National League of Cities test for “inte-
gral operations in areas of traditional governmental functions” had
proven “both impractical and doctrinally barren.” 56 State au-
tonomy is both limited and protected by the terms of the Constitu-
tion itself, hence—ordinarily, at least—exercise of Congress’s enu-
merated powers is not to be limited by “a priori definitions of state
sovereignty.” 57 States retain a significant amount of sovereign au-
thority “only to the extent that the Constitution has not divested
them of their original powers and transferred those powers to the
Federal Government.” 58 There are direct limitations in Art. I, § 10;
and “Section 8 . . . works an equally sharp contraction of state sov-
ereignty by authorizing Congress to exercise a wide range of legis-
lative powers and (in conjunction with the Supremacy Clause of Ar-
ticle VI) to displace contrary state legislation.” 59 On the other hand,
the principal restraints on congressional exercise of the commerce
power are to be found not in the Tenth Amendment, in the Com-
merce Clause itself, or in “judicially created limitations on federal
power,” but in the structure of the Federal Government and in the

     53 National League of Cities v. Usery, 426 U.S. 833, 846–51 (1976). The quota-

tion in the text is at 853 (one of the elements distinguishing the case from Fry).
     54 426 U.S. at 856.
     55 469 U.S. 528 (1985). The issue was again decided by a 5-to-4 vote, Justice

Blackmun’s qualified acceptance of the National League of Cities approach having
changed to complete rejection. Justice Blackmun’s opinion of the Court was joined
by Justices Brennan, White, Marshall, and Stevens. Writing in dissent were Jus-
tices Powell (joined by Chief Justice Burger and by Justices Rehnquist and O’Connor),
O’Connor (joined by Justices Powell and Rehnquist), and Rehnquist.
     56 469 U.S. at 557.
     57 469 U.S. at 548.
     58 469 U.S. at 549.
     59 469 U.S. at 548.
