political processes.60 “[T]he fundamental limitation that the consti-
tutional scheme imposes on the Commerce Clause to protect the ‘States
as States’ is one of process rather than one of result.” 61 While con-
tinuing to recognize that “Congress’s authority under the Com-
merce Clause must reflect [the] position . . . that the States occupy
a special and specific position in our constitutional system,” the Court
held that application of Fair Labor Standards Act minimum wage
and overtime provisions to state employment does not require iden-
tification of these “affirmative limits.” 62 Thus, arguably, the Court
has not totally abandoned the National League of Cities premise
that there are limits on the extent to which federal regulation may
burden states as states. Rather, it has stipulated that any such lim-
its on exercise of federal power must be premised on a failure of
the political processes to protect state interests, and “must be tai-
lored to compensate for [such] failings . . . rather than to dictate a
‘sacred province of state autonomy.’ ” 63
     Further indication of what must be alleged in order to estab-
lish affirmative limits to commerce power regulation was provided
in South Carolina v. Baker.64 The Court expansively interpreted Gar-
cia as meaning that there must be an allegation of “some extraor-
dinary defects in the national political process” before the Court will
intervene.65 A claim that Congress acted on incomplete information
will not suffice, the Court noting that South Carolina had “not even
alleged that it was deprived of any right to participate in the na-
tional political process or that it was singled out in a way that left
it politically isolated and powerless.” 66 Thus, the general rule is that
“limits on Congress’s authority to regulate state activities . . . are
structural, not substantive—i.e., that States must find their protec-
tion from congressional regulation through the national political pro-
cess, not through judicially defined spheres of unregulable state ac-
tivity.” 67
    Dissenting in Garcia, Justice Rehnquist predicted that the doc-
trine propounded by the dissenters and by those Justices in Na-
     60 “Apart from the limitation on federal authority inherent in the delegated na-

ture of Congress’s Article I powers, the principal means chosen by the Framers to
ensure the role of the States in the federal system lies in the structure of the Fed-
eral Government itself.” 469 U.S. at 550. The Court cited as prime examples the
role of states in selecting the President, and the equal representation of states in
the Senate. Id. at 551.
     61 469 U.S. at 554.
     62 469 U.S. at 556.
     63 469 U.S. at 554.
     64 485 U.S. 505 (1988).
     65 485 U.S. at 512.
     66 485 U.S. at 513.
     67 485 U.S. at 512.
