sess land in the hands of private owners for benefits from a road
improvement completed while it was owned by the United States.146
     In 1944, with two dissents, the Court held that where the gov-
ernment purchased movable machinery and leased it to a private
contractor the lessee could not be taxed on the full value of the equip-
ment.147 Twelve years later, and with a like number of Justices dis-
senting, the Court upheld the following taxes imposed on federal
contractors: (1) a municipal tax levied pursuant to a state law which
stipulated that when tax exempt real property is used by a private
firm for profit, the latter is subject to taxation to the same extent
as if it owned the property, and based upon the value of real prop-
erty, a factory, owned by the United States and made available un-
der a lease permitting the contracting corporation to deduct such
taxes from rentals paid by it; the tax was collectible only by direct
action against the contractor for a debt owed, and was not appli-
cable to federal properties on which payments in lieu of taxes are
made; (2) a municipal tax, levied under the authority of the same
state law, based on the value of the realty owned by the United
States, and collected from a cost-plus-fixed-fee contractor, who paid
no rent but agreed not to include any part of the cost of the facili-
ties furnished by the government in the price of goods supplied un-
der the contract; (3) another municipal tax levied in the same state
against a federal subcontractor, and computed on the value of ma-
terials and work in process in his possession, notwithstanding that
title thereto had passed to the United States following his receipt
of installment payments.148
    In sustaining the first tax, the Court held that it was imposed,
not on the government or on its property, but upon a private les-
see, that it was computed by the value of the use to the contractor
of the federally leased property, and that it was nondiscriminatory;
that is, it was designed to equalize the tax burden carried by pri-
vate business using exempt property with that of similar busi-
nesses using taxed property. Distinguishing Allegheny County, the
Court maintained that in that older decision, the tax invalidated
was imposed directly on federal property and that the question of
the legality of a privilege on use and possession of such property
had been expressly reserved. Also, insofar as the economic inci-

    146 Lee v. Osceola Imp. Dist., 268 U.S. 643 (1925).
    147 United States v. Allegheny County, 322 U.S. 174 (1944).
    148 United States v. City of Detroit, 355 U.S. 466 (1958). The Court more re-

cently has stated that Allegheny County “in large part was overruled” by Detroit.
United States v. New Mexico, 455 U.S. 720, 732 (1982).
