  PRIOR DEBTS, NATIONAL SUPREMACY, AND OATHS OF
                      OFFICE


                                    ARTICLE VI
    Clause 1. All Debts contracted and Engagements entered into,
before the Adoption of this Constitution, shall be as valid against
the United States under this Constitution, as under the Confed-
eration.
                                    PRIOR DEBTS
               There have been no interpretations of this clause.

    Clause 2. This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States
which shall be made in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties made,
or which shall be made, under the Authority of the United States,
shall be the supreme Law of the Land; and the Judges in every
State shall be bound thereby; any Thing in the Constitution or
Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding.
                                   NATIONAL SUPREMACY

           Marshall’s Interpretation of the National Supremacy Clause
               Although the Supreme Court had held, prior to Chief Justice
           John Marshall’s appointment to it, that the Supremacy Clause ren-
           dered null and void a state constitutional or statutory provision that
           was inconsistent with a treaty executed by the Federal Govern-
           ment,1 it was left for Marshall to develop the full significance of
           the clause as applied to acts of Congress. By his vigorous opinions
           in McCulloch v. Maryland 2 and Gibbons v. Ogden,3 Marshall gave
           the principle a vitality that survived a century of vacillation under
           the doctrine of dual federalism. In the former case, he asserted broadly
           that “the states have no power, by taxation or otherwise, to retard,
           impede, burden, or in any manner control, the operations of the con-
           stitutional laws enacted by Congress to carry into execution the pow-
           ers vested in the general government. This is, we think, the unavoid-
              1 Ware v. Hylton, 3 U.S. (3 Dall.) 199 (1796).
              2 17 U.S. (4 Wheat.) 316 (1819).
              3 22 U.S. (9 Wheat.) 1 (1824).
