perform it. . . . It is true,” the Chief Justice conceded, “that in the
early days of the Government, Congress relied with confidence upon
the co-operation and support of the States, when exercising the le-
gitimate powers of the General Government, and were accustomed
to receive it, [but this, he explained, was] upon principles of co-
mity, and from a sense of mutual and common interest, where no
such duty was imposed by the Constitution.” 189
     Eighteen years later, in Ex parte Siebold,190 the Court sus-
tained the right of Congress, under Article I, § 4, paragraph 1 of
the Constitution, to impose duties upon state election officials in
connection with a congressional election and to prescribe addi-
tional penalties for the violation by such officials of their duties un-
der state law. Although the doctrine of the holding was expressly
confined to cases in which the National Government and the states
enjoy “a concurrent power over the same subject matter,” no at-
tempt was made to catalogue such cases. Moreover, the outlook of
Justice Bradley’s opinion for the Court was decidedly nationalistic
rather than dualistic, as is shown by the answer made to the con-
tention of counsel “that the nature of sovereignty is such as to pre-
clude the joint co-operation of two sovereigns, even in a matter in
which they are mutually concerned . . . .” 191 To this Justice Brad-
ley replied: “As a general rule, it is no doubt expedient and wise
that the operations of the State and national governments should,
as far as practicable, be conducted separately, in order to avoid un-
due jealousies and jars and conflicts of jurisdiction and power. But
there is no reason for laying this down as a rule of universal appli-
cation. It should never be made to override the plain and manifest
dictates of the Constitution itself. We cannot yield to such a tran-
scendental view of state sovereignty. The Constitution and laws of
the United States are the supreme law of the land, and to these
every citizen of every State owes obedience, whether in his indi-
vidual or official capacity.” 192
     Conflict thus developed early between these two doctrinal lines.
But it was the Siebold line that prevailed. Enforcement of obliga-
tions upon state officials through mandamus or through injunc-
tions was readily available, even when the state itself was im-
mune, through the fiction of Ex parte Young,193 under which a state
official could be sued in his official capacity but without the immu-
nities attaching to his official capacity. Although the obligations were,
    189 65 U.S. (24 How.) 66, 107–08 (1861).
    190 100 U.S. 371 (1880).
    191 100 U.S. at 391.
    192 100 U.S. at 392.
    193 209 U.S. 123 (1908). See also Board of Liquidation v. McComb, 92 U.S. 531,

541 (1876).
