able consequence of that supremacy which the constitution has
declared.” 4 From this he concluded that a state tax upon notes is-
sued by a branch of the Bank of the United States was void.
    In Gibbons v. Ogden, the Court held that certain New York stat-
utes that granted an exclusive right to use steam navigation on the
waters of the state were null and void insofar as they applied to
vessels licensed by the United States to engage in coastal trade.
Chief Justice Marshall wrote: “In argument, however, it has been
contended, that if a law passed by a state, in the exercise of its
acknowledged sovereignty, comes into conflict with a law passed by
Congress in pursuance of the constitution, they affect the subject,
and each other, like equal opposing powers. But the framers of our
constitution foresaw this state of things, and provided for it, by de-
claring the supremacy not only of itself, but of the laws made in
pursuance of it. The nullity of an act, inconsistent with the consti-
tution, is produced by the declaration, that the constitution is the
supreme law. The appropriate application of that part of the clause
which confers the same supremacy on laws and treaties, is to such
acts of the state legislatures as do not transcend their powers, but
though enacted in the execution of acknowledged state powers, in-
terfere with, or are contrary to, the laws of congress, made in pur-
suance of the constitution, or some treaty made under the author-
ity of the United States. In every such case, the act of congress, or
the treaty, is supreme; and the law of the state, though enacted in
the exercise of powers not controverted, must yield to it.” 5

Task of the Supreme Court Under the Clause: Preemption
     In applying the Supremacy Clause to subjects that have been
regulated by Congress, the Court’s primary task is to ascertain whether
a challenged state law is compatible with the policy expressed in
the federal statute. When Congress legislates with regard to a sub-
ject, the extent and nature of the legal consequences of the regula-
tion are federal questions, the answers to which are to be derived
from a consideration of the language and policy of the state. If Con-
gress expressly provides for exclusive federal dominion or if it ex-
pressly provides for concurrent federal-state jurisdiction, the Court’s
task is simplified, though, of course, there may still be doubtful ar-
eas in which interpretation will be necessary. Where Congress is

    4  17 U.S. (4 Wheat.) at 436.
    5  22 U.S. (9 Wheat.) at 210–11. See the Court’s discussion of Gibbons in Doug-
las v. Seacoast Products, Inc., 431 U.S. 265, 274–79 (1977).
