out reference to the powers of the states. For a century after Mar-
shall’s death, however, the Court proceeded on the theory that the
Tenth Amendment had the effect of withdrawing various matters
of internal police from the reach of power expressly committed to
Congress. This point of view was originally put forward in New York
City v. Miln,24 which was first argued but not decided before Mar-
shall’s death. Miln involved a New York statute that required cap-
tains of vessels entering New York Harbor with aliens aboard to
make a report in writing to the Mayor of the City, giving certain
prescribed information. It might have been distinguished from Gib-
bons v. Ogden on the ground that the statute involved in the ear-
lier case conflicted with an act of Congress, whereas the Court found
that no such conflict existed in this case. But the Court was unwill-
ing to rest its decision on that distinction.
     Speaking for the majority, Justice Barbour seized the opportu-
nity to proclaim a new doctrine. “But we do not place our opinion
on this ground. We choose rather to plant ourselves on what we
consider impregnable positions. They are these: That a state has
the same undeniable and unlimited jurisdiction over all persons and
things, within its territorial limits, as any foreign nation, where that
jurisdiction is not surrendered or restrained by the constitution of
the United States. That, by virtue of this, it is not only the right,
but the bounden and solemn duty of a state, to advance the safety,
happiness and prosperity of its people, and to provide for its gen-
eral welfare, by any and every act of legislation, which it may deem
to be conducive to these ends; where the power over the particular
subject, or the manner of its exercise is not surrendered or re-
strained, in the manner just stated. That all those powers which
relate to merely municipal legislation, or what may, perhaps, more
properly be called internal police, are not thus surrendered or re-
strained; and that, consequently, in relation to these, the authority
of a state is complete, unqualified, and exclusive.” 25 Justice Story,
in dissent, stated that Marshall had heard the previous argument
and reached the conclusion that the New York statute was uncon-
stitutional.26
     The conception of a “complete, unqualified and exclusive” police
power residing in the states and limiting the powers of the na-
tional government was endorsed by Chief Justice Taney ten years
later in the License Cases.27 In upholding state laws requiring li-
censes for the sale of alcoholic beverages, including those imported
   24 36   U.S.   (11 Pet.) 102 (1837).
   25 36   U.S.   at 139.
   26 36   U.S.   at 161.
   27 46   U.S.   (5 How.) 504, 528 (1847).
