further right to contest the state comptroller’s estimate of those re-
ceipts and his adding to his estimate the 10 percent penalty permit-
ted by law.533

Eminent Domain
    The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment has been
held to require that when a state or local governmental body, or a
private body exercising delegated power, takes private property it
must provide just compensation and take only for a public purpose.
Applicable principles are discussed under the Fifth Amendment.534

Fundamental Rights (Noneconomic Substantive Due
  Process)
    A counterpart to the now-discredited economic substantive due
process, noneconomic substantive due process is still vital today. The
concept has come to include disparate lines of cases, and various
labels have been applied to the rights protected, including “funda-
mental rights,” “privacy rights,” “liberty interests” and “incorpo-
rated rights.” The binding principle of these cases is that they in-
volve rights so fundamental that the courts must subject any legislation
infringing on them to close scrutiny. This analysis, criticized by some
for being based on extra-constitutional precepts of natural law,535
serves as the basis for some of the most significant constitutional
holdings of our time. For instance, the application of the Bill of Rights
to the states, seemingly uncontroversial today, is based not on con-
stitutional text, but on noneconomic substantive due process and
the “incorporation” of fundamental rights.536 Other noneconomic due
process holdings, however, such as the cases establishing the right
of a woman to have an abortion,537 remain controversial.
    Development of the Right of Privacy.—More so than other
areas of law, noneconomic substantive due process seems to have
started with few fixed precepts. Were the rights being protected prop-
erty rights (and thus really protected by economic due process) or
were they individual liberties? What standard of review needed to
be applied? What were the parameters of such rights once identi-
fied? For instance, did a right of “privacy” relate to protecting physi-
cal spaces such as one’s home, or was it related to the issue of au-
tonomy to make private, intimate decisions? Once a right was
       533   Pullman Co. v. Knott, 235 U.S. 23 (1914).
       534   See analysis under “National Eminent Domain Power,” Fifth Amendment, su-
pra.
       535   See, e.g., RAOUL BERGER,GOVERNMENT   BY   JUDICIARY: THE TRANSFORMATION   OF THE   FOUR-
TEENTH AMENDMENT (Cambridge: 1977).
    536 See Bill of Rights, “Fourteenth     Amendment,” supra.
       537   See Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113, 164 (1973).
