Regulation of Business Enterprises: Price Controls
     In examining whether the Due Process Clause allows the regu-
lation of business prices, the Supreme Court, almost from the incep-
tion of the Fourteenth Amendment, has devoted itself to the exami-
nation of two questions: (1) whether the clause restricted such
regulation to certain types of business, and (2) the nature of the
regulation allowed as to those businesses.
     Types of Businesses That May be Regulated.—For a brief
interval following the ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment, the
Supreme Court found the Due Process Clause to impose no substan-
tive restraint on the power of states to fix rates chargeable by any
industry. Thus, in Munn v. Illinois,139 the first of the “Granger Cases,”
maximum charges established by a state for Chicago grain elevator
companies were challenged, not as being confiscatory in character,
but rather as a regulation beyond the power of any state agency to
impose.140 The Court, in an opinion that was largely dictum, de-
clared that the Due Process Clause did not operate as a safeguard
against oppressive rates, and that, if regulation was permissible,
the severity of it was within legislative discretion and could be ame-
liorated only by resort to the polls. Not much time elapsed, how-
ever, before the Court effected a complete withdrawal from this po-
sition, and by 1890 141 it had fully converted the Due Process Clause
into a restriction on the power of state agencies to impose rates
that, in a judge’s estimation, were arbitrary or unreasonable. This
state of affairs continued for more than fifty years.
     Prior to 1934, unless a business was “affected with a public in-
terest,” control of its prices, rates, or conditions of service was viewed
as an unconstitutional deprivation of liberty and property without
due process of law. During the period of its application, however,
the phrase, “business affected with a public interest,” never ac-
quired any precise meaning, and as a consequence lawyers were never
able to identify all those qualities or attributes that invariably dis-
tinguished a business so affected from one not so affected. The most
coherent effort by the Court was the following classification pre-
pared by Chief Justice Taft: 142 “(1) Those [businesses] which are
carried on under the authority of a public grant of privileges which
     139 94 U.S. 113 (1877). See also Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U.S. 97 (1878);

Peik v. Chicago & N.W. Ry., 94 U.S. 164 (1877);
     140 The Court not only asserted that governmental regulation of rates charged

by public utilities and allied businesses was within the states’ police power, but added
that the determination of such rates by a legislature was conclusive and not subject
to judicial review or revision.
     141 Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. v. Minnesota, 134 U.S. 418 (1890).
     142 Wolff Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U.S. 522, 535–36 (1923) (citations

omitted).
