suggested—physician-assisted suicide—that appears to be an uncer-
tain blend of assisted suicide or active euthanasia undertaken by a
licensed physician.
     There has been little litigation of constitutional issues surround-
ing suicide generally, although Supreme Court dicta seems to favor
the notion that the state has a constitutionally defensible interest
in preserving the lives of healthy citizens.696 On the other hand,
the right of a seriously ill person to terminate life-sustaining medi-
cal treatment has been addressed, but not squarely faced. In Cruzan
v. Director, Missouri Department of Health,697 the Court, rather than
directly addressing the issue, “assume[d]” that “a competent per-
son [has] a constitutionally protected right to refuse lifesaving hy-
dration and nutrition.” 698 More importantly, however, a majority of
the Justices separately declared that such a liberty interest ex-
ists.699 Yet, it is not clear how actively the Court would seek to pro-
tect this right from state regulation.
    In Cruzan, which involved a patient in a persistent vegetative
state, the Court upheld a state requirement that there must be “clear
and convincing evidence” of a patient’s previously manifested wishes
before nutrition and hydration could be withdrawn. Despite the ex-
istence of a presumed due process right, the Court held that a state
is not required to follow the judgment of the family, the guardian,
or “anyone but the patient herself ” in making this decision.700 Thus,
in the absence of clear and convincing evidence that the patient had
expressed an interest not to be sustained in a persistent vegetative
state, or that she had expressed a desire to have a surrogate make
such a decision for her, the state may refuse to allow withdrawal of
nutrition and hydration.701
    Despite the Court’s acceptance of such state requirements, the
implications of the case are significant. First, the Court appears,
without extensive analysis, to have adopted the position that refus-
ing nutrition and hydration is the same as refusing other forms of
     696 Cruzan v. Director, Missouri Department of Health, 497 U.S. 261, 280 (1990)

(“We do not think that a State is required to remain neutral in the face of an in-
formed and voluntary decision by a physically able adult to starve to death”).
     697 497 U.S. 261 (1990).
     698 497 U.S. at 279.
     699 See 497 U.S. at 287 (O’Connor, concurring); id. at 304–05 (Brennan, joined

by Marshall and Blackmun, dissenting); id. at 331 (Stevens, dissenting).
     700 497 U.S. at 286.
     701 “A State is entitled to guard against potential abuses” that can occur if fam-

ily members do not protect a patient’s best interests, and “may properly decline to
make judgments about the ‘quality’ of life that a particular individual may enjoy,
and [instead] simply assert an unqualified interest in the preservation of human
life to be weighed against the constitutionally protected interests of the individual.”
497 U.S. at 281–82.
