New York,93 the Court found that a law restricting employment in
bakeries to ten hours per day and 60 hours per week was not a
true health measure, but was merely a labor regulation, and thus
was an unconstitutional interference with the right of adult labor-
ers, sui juris, to contract for their means of livelihood. Denying that
the Court was substituting its own judgment for that of the legisla-
ture, Justice Peckham nevertheless maintained that whether the
act was within the police power of the state was a “question that
must be answered by the Court.” Then, in disregard of the medical
evidence proffered, the Justice stated: “In looking through statis-
tics regarding all trades and occupations, it may be true that the
trade of a baker does not appear to be as healthy as some other
trades, and is also vastly more healthy than still others. To the com-
mon understanding the trade of a baker has never been regarded
as an unhealthy one. . . . It might be safely affirmed that almost
all occupations more or less affect the health. . . . But are we all,
on that account, at the mercy of the legislative majorities?” 94
     Justice Harlan, in dissent, asserted that the law was a health
regulation, pointing to the abundance of medical testimony tending
to show that the life expectancy of bakers was below average, that
their capacity to resist diseases was low, and that they were pecu-
liarly prone to suffer irritations of the eyes, lungs, and bronchial
passages. He concluded that the very existence of such evidence left
the reasonableness of the measure open to discussion and thus within
the discretion of the legislature. “The responsibility therefor rests
upon the legislators, not upon the courts. No evils arising from such
legislation could be more far-reaching than those that might come
to our system of government if the judiciary, abandoning the sphere
assigned to it by the fundamental law, should enter the domain of
legislation, and upon grounds merely of justice or reason or wis-
dom annul statutes that had received the sanction of the people’s
representatives. . . . [L]egislative enactments should be recognized
and enforced by the courts as embodying the will of the people, un-
less they are plainly and palpably, beyond all question, in violation
of the fundamental law of the Constitution.” 95
     A second dissenting opinion, written by Justice Holmes, has re-
ceived the greater measure of attention as a forecast of the line of
reasoning the Court was to follow some decades later. “This case is
decided upon an economic theory which a large part of the country
does not entertain. If it were a question whether I agreed with that
theory, I should desire to study it further and long before making
   93 198 U.S. 45 (1905).
   94 198 U.S. at 59.
   95 198 U.S. at 74 (quoting Atkin v. Kansas, 191 U.S. 207, 223 (1903)).
