burden” standard was in fact likely to lead to a major curtailment
of the right to obtain an abortion. In Stenberg v. Carhart,608 the
Court reviewed a Nebraska statute that forbade “partially deliver-
ing vaginally a living unborn child before killing the unborn child
and completing the delivery.” Although the state argued that the
statute was directed only at an infrequently used procedure re-
ferred to as an “intact dilation and excavation,” the Court found
that the statute could be interpreted to include the far more com-
mon procedure of “dilation and excavation.” 609 The Court also noted
that the prohibition appeared to apply to abortions performed by
these procedures throughout a pregnancy, including before viability
of the fetus, and that the sole exception in the statute was to allow
an abortion that was necessary to preserve the life of the mother.610
Thus, the statute brought into question both the distinction main-
tained in Casey between pre-viability and post-viability abortions,
and the oft-repeated language from Roe that provides that abortion
restrictions must contain exceptions for situations where there is a
threat to either the life or the health of a pregnant woman.611 The
Court, however, reaffirmed the central tenets of its previous abor-
tion decisions, striking down the Nebraska law because its possible
application to pre-viability abortions was too broad, and the excep-
tion for threats to the life of the mother was too narrow.612
    Only seven years later, however, the Supreme Court decided Gon-
zales v. Carhart,613 which, although not formally overruling Stenberg,
appeared to signal a change in how the Court would analyze limi-
tations on abortion procedures. Of perhaps greatest significance is
that Gonzales was the first case in which the Court upheld a statu-
tory prohibition on a particular method of abortion. In Gonzales,
the Court, by a 5–4 vote,614 upheld a federal criminal statute that
prohibited an overt act to “kill” a fetus where it had been intention-
    608  530 U.S. 914 (2000).
    609  530 U.S. at 938–39.
     610 The Nebraska law provided that such procedures could be performed where

“necessary to save the life of the mother whose life is endangered by a physical dis-
order, physical illness, or physical injury, including a life-endangering physical con-
dition caused by or arising from the pregnancy itself.” Neb. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 28–
328(1).
     611 Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113, 164 (1973).
     612 As to the question of whether an abortion statute that is unconstitutional in

some instances should be struck down in application only or in its entirety, see Ayotte
v. Planned Parenthood of Northern New England, 546 U.S. 320 (2006) (challenge to
parental notification restrictions based on lack of emergency health exception re-
manded to determine legislative intent regarding severability of those applications).
     613 550 U.S. 124 (2007).
     614 Justice Kennedy wrote the majority opinion, joined by Justices Roberts, Scalia,

Thomas, and Alito, while Justice Ginsberg authored a dissenting opinion, which was
joined by Justices Steven, Souter and Breyer. Justice Thomas also filed a concur-
ring opinion, joined by Justice Scalia, calling for overruling Casey and Roe.
