grappled with the issue, first in a case involving Oklahoma City
public schools, then in a case involving the University of Missis-
sippi college system. A desegregation decree may be lifted, the
Court said in Oklahoma City Board of Education v. Dowell,1656
upon a showing that the purposes of the litigation have been
“fully achieved”—i.e., that the school district is being operated
“in compliance with the commands of the Equal Protection
Clause,” that it has been so operated “for a reasonable period of
time,” and that it is “unlikely” that the school board would re-
turn to its former violations. On remand, the trial court was di-
rected to determine “whether the Board had complied in good
faith with the desegregation decree since it was entered, and
whether the vestiges of past [de jure] discrimination had been
eliminated to the extent practicable.” 1657 In United States v.
Fordice,1658 the Court determined that Mississippi had not, by
adopting and implementing race-neutral policies, eliminated all
vestiges of its prior de jure, racially segregated, “dual” system of
higher education. The state also, to the extent practicable and
consistent with sound educational practices, had to eradicate
policies and practices that were traceable to the dual system and
that continued to have segregative effects. The Court identified
several surviving aspects of Mississippi’s prior dual system that
were constitutionally suspect and that had to be justified or
eliminated. The state’s admissions policy, requiring higher test
scores for admission to the five historically white institutions
than for admission to the three historically black institutions,
was suspect because it originated as a means of preserving seg-
regation. Also suspect were the widespread duplication of pro-
grams, a possible remnant of the dual “separate-but-equal” sys-
tem; institutional mission classifications that made three
historically white schools the flagship “comprehensive” universi-
ties; and the retention and operation of all eight schools rather
than the possible merger of some.




   1656 498 U.S. 237 (1991).
   1657 498 U.S. at 249–50.
   1658 505 U.S. 717.
