medical treatment. Also, the Court seems ready to extend such right
not only to terminally ill patients, but also to severely incapaci-
tated patients whose condition has stabilized.702 However, the Court
made clear in a subsequent case, Washington v. Glucksberg,703 that
it intends to draw a line between withdrawal of medical treatment
and more active forms of intervention.
    In Glucksberg, the Supreme Court rejected an argument that
the Due Process Clause provides a terminally ill individual the right
to seek and obtain a physician’s aid in committing suicide. Review-
ing a challenge to a state statutory prohibition against assisted sui-
cide, the Court noted that it moves with “utmost care” before break-
ing new ground in the area of liberty interests.704 The Court pointed
out that suicide and assisted suicide have long been disfavored by
the American judicial system, and courts have consistently distin-
guished between passively allowing death to occur and actively caus-
ing such death. The Court rejected the applicability of Cruzan and
other liberty interest cases,705 noting that while many of the inter-
ests protected by the Due Process Clause involve personal au-
tonomy, not all important, intimate, and personal decisions are so
protected. By rejecting the notion that assisted suicide is constitu-
tionally protected, the Court also appears to preclude constitu-
tional protection for other forms of intervention in the death pro-
cess, such as suicide or euthanasia.706

                PROCEDURAL DUE PROCESS: CIVIL

Generally
    Due process requires that the procedures by which laws are ap-
plied must be evenhanded, so that individuals are not subjected to


     702 There was testimony that the patient in Cruzan could be kept “alive” for

about 30 years if nutrition and hydration were continued.
     703 521 U.S. 702 (1997). In the companion case of Vacco v. Quill, 521 U.S. 793

(1997), the Court also rejected an argument that a state which prohibited assisted
suicide but which allowed termination of medical treatment resulting in death un-
reasonably discriminated against the terminally ill in violation of the Equal Protec-
tion Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
     704 521 U.S. at 720.
     705 E.g., Planned Parenthood v. Casey, 505 U.S. 833 (1992) (upholding a liberty

interest in terminating pregnancy).
     706 A passing reference by Justice O’Connor in a concurring opinion in Glucksberg

and its companion case Vacco v. Quill may, however, portend a liberty interest in
seeking pain relief, or “palliative” care. Glucksberg and Vacco, 521 U.S. at 736–37
(Justice O’Connor, concurring).
