     In Oyama v. California,33 the Court, in a single sentence, agreed
with the contention of a native-born youth that a state Alien Land
Law that resulted in the forfeiture of property purchased in his name
with funds advanced by his parent, a Japanese alien ineligible for
citizenship and precluded from owning land, deprived him “of his
privileges as an American citizen.” The right to acquire and retain
property had previously not been set forth in any of the enumera-
tions as one of the privileges protected against state abridgment,
although a federal statute enacted prior to the proposal and ratifi-
cation of the Fourteenth Amendment did confer on all citizens the
same rights to purchase and hold real property as white citizens
enjoyed.34
     In a doctrinal shift of uncertain significance, the Court will ap-
parently evaluate challenges to durational residency requirements,
previously considered as violations of the right to travel derived from
the Equal Protection Clause,35 as a potential violation of the Privi-
leges or Immunities Clause. Thus, where a California law re-
stricted the level of welfare benefits available to Californians who
have been residents for less than a year to the level of benefits avail-
able in the state of their prior residence, the Court found a viola-
tion of the right of newly arrived citizens to be treated the same as
other state citizens.36 Despite suggestions that this opinion will open
the door to “guaranteed equal access to all public benefits,” 37 it seems
more likely that the Court is protecting the privilege of being treated
immediately as a full citizen of the state one chooses for perma-
nent residence.38

                           DUE PROCESS OF LAW

Generally
   Due process under the Fourteenth Amendment can be broken
down into two categories: procedural due process and substantive
due process. Procedural due process, based on principles of “funda-
mental fairness,” addresses which legal procedures are required to
(a provision in a state constitution to the effect that low-rent housing projects could
not be developed, constructed, or acquired by any state governmental body without
the affirmative vote of a majority of those citizens participating in a community ref-
erendum).
     33 332 U.S. 633, 640 (1948).
     34 Civil Rights Act of 1866, ch. 31, 14 Stat. 27, now 42 U.S.C. § 1982, as amended.
     35 See The Right to Travel, infra.
     36 Saenz v. Roe, 526 U.S. 489 (1999).
     37 526 U.S. at 525 (Thomas, J., dissenting).
     38 The right of United States citizens to choose their state of residence is specifi-

cally protected by the first sentence of the 14th Amendment “All persons born or
naturalized in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens
of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.”
