measures” that are “substantially related” to the achievement of an
“important” governmental objective of broadcast diversity.1741
     In Croson, the Court ruled that the city had failed to establish
a “compelling” interest in the racial quota system because it failed
to identify past discrimination in its construction industry. Mere reci-
tation of a “benign” or remedial purpose will not suffice, the Court
concluded, nor will reliance on the disparity between the number
of contracts awarded to minority firms and the minority population
of the city. “[W]here special qualifications are necessary, the rel-
evant statistical pool for purposes of demonstrating exclusion must
be the number of minorities qualified to undertake the particular
task.” 1742 The overinclusive definition of minorities, including U.S.
citizens who are “Blacks, Spanish-speaking, Orientals, Indians, Es-
kimos, or Aleuts,” also “impugn[ed] the city’s claim of remedial mo-
tivation,” there having been “no evidence” of any past discrimina-
tion against non-blacks in the Richmond construction industry.1743
It followed that Richmond’s set-aside program also was not “nar-
rowly tailored” to remedy the effects of past discrimination in the
city: an individualized waiver procedure made the quota approach
unnecessary, and a minority entrepreneur “from anywhere in the
country” could obtain an absolute racial preference.1744
    At issue in Metro Broadcasting were two minority preference
policies of the FCC, one recognizing an “enhancement” for minority
ownership and participation in management when the FCC consid-
ers competing license applications, and the other authorizing a “dis-
tress sale” transfer of a broadcast license to a minority enterprise.
These racial preferences—unlike the set-asides at issue in Fullilove—
originated as administrative policies rather than statutory man-
dates. Because Congress later endorsed these policies, however, the
Court was able to conclude that they bore “the imprimatur of
longstanding congressional support and direction.” 1745
    Metro Broadcasting was noteworthy for several other reasons
as well. The Court rejected the dissent’s argument—seemingly ac-
cepted by a Croson majority—that Congress’s more extensive au-
thority to adopt racial classifications must trace to section 5 of the
Fourteenth Amendment, and instead ruled that Congress also may
rely on race-conscious measures in exercise of its commerce and spend-
    1741  497 U.S. at 564–65.
    1742  488 U.S. at 501–02.
     1743 488 U.S. at 506.
     1744 488 U.S. at 508.
     1745 497 U.S. at 600. Justice O’Connor’s dissenting opinion contended that the

case “does not present ‘a considered decision of the Congress and the President.’ ”
Id. at 607 (quoting Fullilove, 448 U.S. at 473).
