identified, often using abstract labels, how far could such an abstrac-
tion be extended? Did protecting the “privacy” of the decisions whether
to have a family also include the right to make decisions regarding
sexual intimacy? Although many of these issues have been re-
solved, others remain.
     One of the earliest formulations of noneconomic substantive due
process was the right to privacy. This right was first proposed by
Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis in an 1890 Harvard Law Re-
view article 538 as a unifying theme to various common law protec-
tions of the “right to be left alone,” including the developing laws
of nuisance, libel, search and seizure, and copyright. According to
the authors, “the right to life has come to mean the right to enjoy
life,—the right to be let alone . . . . This development of the law
was inevitable. The intense intellectual and emotional life, and the
heightening of sensations which came with the advance of civiliza-
tion, made it clear to men that only a part of the pain, pleasure,
and profit of life lay in physical things. Thoughts, emotions, and
sensations demanded legal recognition, and the beautiful capacity
for growth which characterizes the common law enabled the judges
to afford the requisite protection, without the interposition of the
legislature.”
     The concepts put forth in this article, which appeared to relate
as much to private intrusions on persons as to intrusions by govern-
ment, reappeared years later in a dissenting opinion by Justice
Brandeis regarding the Fourth Amendment.539 Then, in the 1920s,
at the heyday of economic substantive due process, the Court ruled
in two cases that, although nominally involving the protection of
property, foreshadowed the rise of the protection of noneconomic in-
terests. In Meyer v. Nebraska,540 the Court struck down a state law
forbidding schools from teaching any modern foreign language to
any child who had not successfully finished the eighth grade. Two
years later, in Pierce v. Society of Sisters,541 the Court declared it
unconstitutional to require public school education of children aged
    538   Warren and Brandeis, The Right of Privacy, 4 Harv. L. Rev. 193 (1890).
    539  See Olmstead v. United States, 277 U.S. 438 (1928) (Brandeis, J., dissent-
ing) (arguing against the admissibility in criminal trials of secretly taped telephone
conversations). In Olmstead, Justice Brandeis wrote: “The makers of our Constitu-
tion undertook to secure conditions favorable to the pursuit of happiness. . . . They
sought to protect Americans in their beliefs, their thoughts, their emotions and their
sensations. They conferred, as against the Government, the right to be let alone—
the most comprehensive of rights and the right most valued by civilized men. To
protect that right, every unjustifiable intrusion by the government upon the privacy
of the individual, whatever the means employed, must be deemed a violation of the
Fourth Amendment.” 277 U.S. at 478.
     540 262 U.S. 390 (1923). Justices Holmes and Sutherland entered a dissent, ap-

plicable to Meyer, in Bartels v. Iowa, 262 U.S. 404, 412 (1923).
     541 268 U.S. 510 (1925).
