reassert states’ rights, it imposed a rather rigid state action stan-
dard, limiting the circumstances under which discrimination suits
could be pursued. During the civil rights movement of the 1950s
and 1960s, however when almost all state action contentions were
raised in a racial context, the Court generally found the presence
of state action. As it grew more sympathetic to federalism concerns
in the late 1970s and 1980s, the Court began to reassert a strength-
ened state action doctrine, primarily but hardly exclusively in non-
racial cases.1275 “Careful adherence to the ‘state action’ require-
ment preserves an area of individual freedom by limiting the reach
of federal law and federal judicial power. It also avoids imposing
on the State, its agencies or officials, responsibility for conduct for
which they cannot fairly be blamed. A major consequence is to re-
quire the courts to respect the limits of their own power as di-
rected against state governments and private interests. Whether this
is good or bad policy, it is a fundamental fact of our political or-
der.” 1276
    Operation of the state action doctrine was critical in determin-
ing whether school systems were segregated unconstitutionally by
race. The original Brown cases as well as many subsequent cases
arose in the context of statutorily mandated separation of the races,
and therefore the finding of state action occasioned no contro-
versy.1277 In the South, the aftermath of the case more often in-
volved disputes over which remedies were needed to achieve a uni-
tary system than it did the requirements of state action.1278 But if
racial segregation is not the result of state action in some aspect,


     1275 The history of the state action doctrine makes clear that the Court has con-

siderable discretion and that the weighing of the opposing values and interests will
lead to substantially different applications of the tests. “Only by sifting facts and
weighing circumstances can the nonobvious involvement of the State in private con-
duct be attributed its true significance.” Burton v. Wilmington Parking Auth., 365
U.S. 715, 722 (1961).
     1276 Lugar v. Edmondson Oil Co., 457 U.S. 922, 936–37 (1982). “Freedom of the

individual to choose his associates or his neighbors, to use and dispose of his prop-
erty as he sees fit, to be irrational, arbitrary, capricious, even unjust in his personal
relations are things all entitled to a large measure of protection from governmental
interference. This liberty would be overridden in the name of equality, if the struc-
tures of the amendment were applied to governmental and private action without
distinction. Also inherent in the concept of state action are values of federalism, a
recognition that there are areas of private rights upon which federal power should
not lay a heavy hand and which should properly be left to the more precise instru-
ments of local authority.” Peterson v. City of Greenville, 373 U.S. 244, 250 (1963)
(Justice Harlan concurring).
     1277 Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S. 483 (1954).
     1278 See “Brown’s Aftermath,” supra.
