by no agents whatsoever.886 The Due Process Clause was declared
not to “forbid a State to protect its citizens from such injustice” of
having to file suits on their claims at a far distant home office of
such company, especially in view of the fact that such suits could
be more conveniently tried in Virginia where claims of loss could
be investigated.887
     Likewise, the Court reviewed a California statute which sub-
jected foreign mail order insurance companies engaged in contracts
with California residents to suit in California courts, and which had
authorized the petitioner to serve a Texas insurer by registered mail
only.888 The contract between the company and the insured speci-
fied that Austin, Texas, was the place of “making” and the place
where liability should be deemed to arise. The company mailed pre-
mium notices to the insured in California, and he mailed his pre-
mium payments to the company in Texas. Acknowledging that the
connection of the company with California was tenuous—it had no
office or agents in the state and no evidence had been presented
that it had solicited anyone other than the insured for business—
the Court sustained jurisdiction on the basis that the suit was on a
contract which had a substantial connection with California. “The
contract was delivered in California, the premiums were mailed there
and the insured was a resident of that State when he died. It can-
not be denied that California has a manifest interest in providing
effective means of redress for its residents when their insurers re-
fuse to pay claims.” 889
     886 Travelers Health Ass’n v. Virginia ex rel. State Corp. Comm’n, 339 U.S. 643

(1950). The decision was 5-to-4 with one of the majority Justices also contributing a
concurring opinion. Id. at 651 (Justice Douglas). The possible significance of the con-
currence is that it appears to disagree with the implication of the majority opinion,
id. at 647–48, that a state’s legislative jurisdiction and its judicial jurisdiction are
coextensive. Id. at 652–53 (distinguishing between the use of the state’s judicial power
to enforce its legislative powers and the judicial jurisdiction when a private party is
suing). See id. at 659 (dissent).
     887 339 U.S. at 647–49. The holding in Minnesota Commercial Men’s Ass’n v.

Benn, 261 U.S. 140 (1923), that a similar mail order insurance company could not
be viewed as doing business in the forum state and that the circumstances under
which its contracts with forum state citizens, executed and to be performed in its
state of incorporation, were consummated could not support an implication that the
foreign company had consented to be sued in the forum state, was distinguished
rather than formally overruled. 339 U.S. at 647. In any event, Benn could not have
survived McGee v. International Life Ins. Co., 355 U.S. 220 (1957), below.
     888 McGee v. International Life Ins. Co., 355 U.S. 220 (1957).
     889 355 U.S. at 223. The Court also noticed the proposition that the insured could

not bear the cost of litigation away from home as well as the insurer. See also Perkins
v. Benguet Consolidating Mining Co., 342 U.S. 437 (1952), a case too atypical on its
facts to permit much generalization but which does appear to verify the implication
of International Shoe that in personam jurisdiction may attach to a corporation even
where the cause of action does not arise out of the business done by defendant in
the forum state, as well as to state, in dictum, that the mere presence of a corpo-
