    The Court, however, summarily rejected the argument that Mul-
laney means that the prosecution must negate an insanity de-
fense,1114 and, later, in Patterson v. New York,1115 upheld a state stat-
ute that required a defendant asserting “extreme emotional
disturbance” as an affirmative defense to murder 1116 to prove such
by a preponderance of the evidence. According to the Court, the con-
stitutional deficiency in Mullaney was that the statute made mal-
ice an element of the offense, permitted malice to be presumed upon
proof of the other elements, and then required the defendant to prove
the absence of malice. In Patterson, by contrast, the statute obli-
gated the state to prove each element of the offense (the death, the
intent to kill, and the causation) beyond a reasonable doubt, while
allowing the defendant to prove an affirmative defense by prepon-
derance of the evidence that would reduce the degree of the of-
fense.1117 This distinction has been criticized as formalistic, as the
legislature can shift burdens of persuasion between prosecution and
defense easily through the statutory definitions of the offenses.1118

     1114 Rivera v. Delaware, 429 U.S. 877 (1976), dismissing as not presenting a sub-

stantial federal question an appeal from a holding that Mullaney did not prevent a
state from placing on the defendant the burden of proving insanity by a preponder-
ance of the evidence. See Patterson v. New York, 432 U.S. 197, 202–05 (1977) (ex-
plaining the import of Rivera). Justice Rehnquist and Chief Justice Burger concur-
ring in Mullaney, 421 U.S. at 704, 705, had argued that the case did not require
any reconsideration of the holding in Leland v. Oregon, 343 U.S. 790 (1952), that
the defense may be required to prove insanity beyond a reasonable doubt.
     1115 432 U.S. 197 (1977).
     1116 Proving the defense would reduce a murder offense to manslaughter.
     1117 The decisive issue, then, was whether the statute required the state to prove

beyond a reasonable doubt each element of the offense. See also Dixon v. United
States, 548 U.S. 1 (2006) (requiring defendant in a federal firearms case to prove
her duress defense by a preponderance of evidence did not violate due process). In
Dixon, the prosecution had the burden of proving all elements of two federal fire-
arms violations, one requiring a “willful” violation (having knowledge of the facts
that constitute the offense) and the other requiring a “knowing” violation (acting
with knowledge that the conduct was unlawful). Although establishing other forms
of mens rea (such as “malicious intent”) might require that a prosecutor prove that
a defendant’s intent was without justification or excuse, the Court held that neither
of the forms of mens rea at issue in Dixon contained such a requirement. Conse-
quently, the burden of establishing the defense of duress could be placed on the de-
fendant without violating due process.
     1118 Dissenting in Patterson, Justice Powell argued that the two statutes were

functional equivalents that should be treated alike constitutionally. He would hold
that as to those facts that historically have made a substantial difference in the
punishment and stigma flowing from a criminal act the state always bears the bur-
den of persuasion but that new affirmative defenses may be created and the burden
of establishing them placed on the defendant. 432 U.S. at 216. Patterson was fol-
lowed in Martin v. Ohio, 480 U.S. 228 (1987) (state need not disprove defendant
acted in self-defense based on honest belief she was in imminent danger, when of-
fense is aggravated murder, an element of which is “prior calculation and design”).
Justice Powell, again dissenting, urged a distinction between defenses that negate
an element of the crime and those that do not. Id. at 236, 240.
