     In Asahi Metal Industry Co. v. Superior Court,900 the Court ad-
dressed more closely how jurisdiction flows with products down-
stream. The Court identified two standards for limiting jurisdiction
even as products proceed to foreseeable destinations. The more gen-
eral standard harked back to the fair play and substantial justice
doctrine of International Shoe and requires balancing the respec-
tive interests of the parties, the prospective forum state, and alter-
native fora. All the Justices agreed with the legitimacy of this test
in assessing due process limits on jurisdiction.901 However, four Jus-
tices would also apply a more exacting test: A defendant who placed
a product in the stream of commerce knowing that the product might
eventually be sold in a state will be subject to jurisdiction there
only if the defendant also had purposefully acted to avail itself of
the state’s market. According to Justice O’Connor, who wrote the
opinion espousing this test, a defendant subjected itself to jurisdic-
tion by targeting or serving customers in a state through, for ex-
ample, direct advertising, marketing through a local sales agent,
or establishing channels for providing regular advice to local cus-
tomers. Action, not expectation, is key.902 In Asahi, the state was
found to lack jurisdiction under both tests cited.
     Doctrinal differences on the due process touchstones in stream-
of-commerce cases became more critical to the outcome in J. McIntyre
Machinery, Ltd. v. Nicastro.903 Justice Kennedy, writing for a four-
Justice plurality, asserted that it is a defendant’s purposeful avail-
ment of the forum state that makes jurisdiction consistent with tra-
ditional notions of fair play and substantial justice. The question is
not so much the fairness of a state reaching out to bring a foreign
defendant before its courts as it is a matter of a foreign defendant
having acted within a state so as to bring itself within the state’s
     900 480 U.S. 102 (1987). In Asahi, a California resident sued, inter alia, a Tai-

wanese tire tube manufacturer for injuries caused by a blown-out motorcycle tire.
After plaintiff and the tube manufacturer settled the case, which had been filed in
California, the tube manufacturer sought indemnity in the California courts against
Asahi Metal, the Japanese supplier of the tube’s valve assembly.
     901 All the Justices also agreed that due process considerations foreclosed juris-

diction in Asahi, even though Asahi Metal could have foreseen that some of its valve
assemblies would end up incorporated into tire tubes sold in the United States. Three
of the Asahi Justices had been dissenters in World-Wide Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson.
Of the three dissenters, Justice Brennan had argued that the “minimum contacts”
test was obsolete and that jurisdiction should be predicated upon the balancing of
the interests of the forum state and plaintiffs against the actual burden imposed on
defendant, 444 U.S. at 299, while Justices Marshall and Blackmun had applied the
test and found jurisdiction because of the foreseeability of defendants that a defec-
tive product of theirs might cause injury in a distant state and because the defen-
dants had entered into an interstate economic network. 444 U.S. at 313.
     902 480 U.S. at 109–113 (1987). Agreeing with Justice O’Connor on this test were

Chief Justice Rehnquist and Justices Powell and Scalia.
     903 564 U.S. ___, No. 09–1343, slip op. (2011).
