    On the authority of Curry v. McCanless, the Court, in Pearson
v. McGraw,465 sustained the application of an Oregon transfer tax
to intangibles handled by an Illinois trust company, although the
property was never physically present in Oregon. Jurisdiction to tax
was viewed as dependent, not on the location of the property in the
state, but on the fact that the owner was a resident of Oregon. In
Graves v. Elliott,466 the Court upheld the power of New York, in
computing its estate tax, to include in the gross estate of a domi-
ciled decedent the value of a trust of bonds managed in Colorado
by a Colorado trust company and already taxed on its transfer by
Colorado, which trust the decedent had established while in Colo-
rado and concerning which he had never exercised any of his re-
served powers of revocation or change of beneficiaries. It was ob-
served that “the power of disposition of property is the equivalent
of ownership. It is a potential source of wealth and its exercise in
the case of intangibles is the appropriate subject of taxation at the
place of the domicile of the owner of the power. The relinquish-
ment at death, in consequence of the non-exercise in life, of a power
to revoke a trust created by a decedent is likewise an appropriate
subject of taxation.” 467
    The costliness of multiple taxation of estates comprising intan-
gibles can be appreciably aggravated if one or more states find that
the decedent died domiciled within its borders. In such cases, con-
testing states may discover that the assets of the estate are insuffi-

of such property. On this basis, the domiciliary state would invariably qualify as a
state competent to tax as would a nondomiciliary state, so far as it could legiti-
mately exercise control or could be shown to have afforded a measure of protection
that was not trivial or insubstantial.
     465 308 U.S. 313 (1939).
     466 307 U.S. 383 (1939).
     467 307 U.S. at 386. Consistent application of the principle enunciated in Curry

v. McCanless is also discernible in two later cases in which the Court sustained the
right of a domiciliary state to tax the transfer of intangibles kept outside its bound-
aries, notwithstanding that “in some instances they may be subject to taxation in
other jurisdictions, to whose control they are subject and whose legal protection they
enjoy.” Graves v. Schmidlapp, 315 U.S. 657, 661 (1942). In this case, an estate tax
was levied upon the value of the subject of a general testamentary power of appoint-
ment effectively exercised by a resident donee over intangibles held by trustees un-
der the will of a nonresident donor of the power. Viewing the transfer of interest in
the intangibles by exercise of the power of appointment as the equivalent of owner-
ship, the Court quoted the statement in McCulloch v. Maryland, 17 U.S. (4 Wheat.)
316, 429 (1819), that the power to tax “is an incident of sovereignty, and is coexten-
sive with that to which it is an incident.” 315 U.S. at 660. Again, in Central Hanover
Bank Co. v. Kelly, 319 U.S. 94 (1943), the Court approved a New Jersey transfer
tax imposed on the occasion of the death of a New Jersey grantor of an irrevocable
trust despite the fact that it was executed in New York, the securities were located
in New York, and the disposition of the corpus was to two nonresident sons.
