a district-wide transportation plan had been imposed. Reversing, the
Supreme Court reiterated that the remedial powers of the federal
courts are called forth by violations and are limited by the scope of
those violations. “Once a constitutional violation is found, a federal
court is required to tailor ‘the scope of the remedy’ to fit ‘the na-
ture and extent of the constitutional violation.’ ” 1640 The goal is to
restore the plaintiffs to the position they would have occupied had
they not been subject to unconstitutional action. Lower courts “must
determine how much incremental segregative effect these viola-
tions had on the racial distribution of the Dayton school population
as presently constituted, when that distribution is compared to what
it would have been in the absence of such constitutional violations.
The remedy must be designed to redress that difference, and only
if there has been a systemwide impact may there be a systemwide
remedy.” 1641 The Court then sent the case back to the district court
for the taking of evidence, the finding of the nature of the viola-
tions, and the development of an appropriate remedy.
     Surprisingly, however, Keyes was reaffirmed and broadly ap-
plied in subsequent appeals of the Dayton case after remand and
in an appeal from Columbus, Ohio.1642 Following the Supreme Court
standards, the Dayton district court held that the plaintiffs had failed
to prove official segregative intent, but was reversed by the ap-
peals court. The Columbus district court had found and had been
affirmed in finding racially discriminatory conduct and had ordered
extensive busing. The Supreme Court held that the evidence ad-
duced in both district courts showed that the school boards had car-
ried out segregating actions affecting a substantial portion of each
school system prior to and contemporaneously with the 1954 deci-
sion in Brown v. Board of Education. The Keyes presumption there-
fore required the school boards to show that systemwide discrimi-
nation had not existed, and they failed to do so. Because each system
was a dual one in 1954, it was subject to an “affirmative duty to
take whatever steps might be necessary to convert to a unitary sys-
tem in which racial discrimination would be eliminated root and

    1640 Dayton Bd. of Educ. v. Brinkman, 433 U.S. 406, 420 (1977) (quoting Hills v.

Gautreaux, 425 U.S. 284, 294 (1976)).
    1641 Dayton Bd. of Educ. v. Brinkman, 433 U.S. 406, 420 (1977). The Court did

not discuss the presumptions that had been permitted by Keyes. Justice Brennan,
the author of Keyes, concurred on the basis that the violations found did not justify
the remedy imposed, asserting that the methods of proof used in Keyes were still
valid. Id. at 421.
    1642 Columbus Bd. of Educ. v. Penick, 443 U.S. 449 (1979); Dayton Bd. of Educ.

v. Brinkman, 443 U.S. 526 (1979).
