into constitutionally enforceable limitations upon government.73 The
consequence was that the states in exercising their police powers
could foster only those purposes of health, morals, and safety which
the Court had enumerated, and could employ only such means as
would not unreasonably interfere with fundamental natural rights
of liberty and property. As articulated by Justice Bradley, these rights
were equated with freedom to pursue a lawful calling and to make
contracts for that purpose.74
    Having narrowed the scope of the state’s police power in defer-
ence to the natural rights of liberty and property, the Court pro-
ceeded to incorporate into due process theories of laissez faire eco-
nomics, reinforced by the doctrine of Social Darwinism (as elaborated
by Herbert Spencer). Thus, “liberty” became synonymous with gov-
ernmental non-interference in the field of private economic rela-
tions. For instance, in Budd v. New York,75 Justice Brewer de-
clared in dictum: “The paternal theory of government is to me odious.
The utmost possible liberty to the individual, and the fullest pos-
sible protection to him and his property, is both the limitation and
duty of government.”
     Next, the Court watered down the accepted maxim that a state
statute must be presumed valid until clearly shown to be other-
wise, by shifting focus to whether facts existed to justify a particu-
lar law.76 The original position could be seen in earlier cases such
as Munn v. Illinois,77 in which the Court sustained the legislation
before it by presuming that such facts existed: “For our purposes
we must assume that, if a state of facts could exist that would jus-
tify such legislation, it actually did exist when the statute now un-
der consideration was passed.” Ten years later, however, in Mugler

     73 Loan Ass’n v. Topeka, 87 U.S. (20 Wall.) 655 (1875). “There are . . . rights in

every free government beyond the control of the State. . . . There are limitations on
[governmental power] which grow out of the essential nature of all free govern-
ments. Implied reservations of individual rights, without which the social compact
could not exist . . . .”
     74 “Rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness are equivalent to the rights

of life, liberty, and property. These are fundamental rights which can only be taken
away by due process of law, and which can only be interfered with, or the enjoy-
ment of which can only be modified, by lawful regulations necessary or proper for
the mutual good of all. . . . This right to choose one’s calling is an essential part of
that liberty which it is the object of government to protect; and a calling, when cho-
sen, is a man’s property right. . . . A law which prohibits a large class of citizens
from adopting a lawful employment, or from following a lawful employment previ-
ously adopted, does deprive them of liberty as well as property, without due process
of law.” Slaughter-House Cases, 83 U.S. (16 Wall.) 36, 116, 122 (1873) (Justice Brad-
ley dissenting).
     75 143 U.S. 517, 551 (1892).
     76 See Fletcher v. Peck, 10 U.S. (6 Cr.) 87, 128 (1810).
     77 94 U.S. 113, 123, 182 (1877).
