dertook a lengthy historical review of medical and legal views re-
garding abortion, finding that modern prohibitions on abortion were
of relatively recent vintage and thus lacked the historical founda-
tion which might have preserved them from constitutional re-
view.566 Then, the Court established that the word “person” as used
in the Due Process Clause and in other provisions of the Constitu-
tion did not include the unborn, and therefore the unborn lacked
federal constitutional protection.567 Finally, the Court summarily an-
nounced that the “Fourteenth Amendment’s concept of personal lib-
erty and restrictions upon state action” includes “a right of per-
sonal privacy, or a guarantee of certain areas or zones of privacy” 568
and that “[t]his right of privacy . . . is broad enough to encompass
a woman’s decision whether or not to terminate her pregnancy.” 569
    It was also significant that the Court held this right of privacy
to be “fundamental” and, drawing upon the strict standard of re-
view found in equal protection litigation, held that the Due Process
Clause required that any limits on this right be justified only by a
“compelling state interest” and be narrowly drawn to express only
the legitimate state interests at stake.570 Assessing the possible in-
terests of the states, the Court rejected justifications relating to the
promotion of morality and the protection of women from the medi-
cal hazards of abortions as unsupported in the record and ill-
served by the laws in question. Further, the state interest in pro-
tecting the life of the fetus was held to be limited by the lack of a
social consensus with regard to the issue of when life begins. Two
valid state interests were, however, recognized. “[T]he State does
have an important and legitimate interest in preserving and pro-
tecting the health of the pregnant woman . . . [and] it has still an-
other important and legitimate interest in protecting the potential-
ity of human life. These interests are separate and distinct. Each
grows in substantiality as the woman approaches term and, at a
point during pregnancy, each becomes ‘compelling.’ ” 571
    Because medical data indicated that abortion prior to the end
of the first trimester is relatively safe, the mortality rate being lower
than the rates for normal childbirth, and because the fetus has no
capability of meaningful life outside the mother’s womb, the Court
found that the state has no “compelling interest” in the first trimes-
ter and “the attending physician, in consultation with his patient,
    566  410 U.S. at 129–47.
    567  410 U.S. at 156–59.
     568 410 U.S. at 152–53.
     569 410 U.S. at 152–53.
     570 410 U.S. at 152, 155–56. The “compelling state interest” test in equal protec-

tion cases is reviewed under “The New Standards: Active Review,” infra.
     571 410 U.S. at 147–52, 159–63.
