or any other government unit.” 15 In a subsequent decision, how-
ever, the Court held that persons who were statutorily naturalized
by being born abroad of at least one American parent could not claim
the protection of the first sentence of section 1 and that Congress
could therefore impose a reasonable and non-arbitrary condition sub-
sequent upon their continued retention of United States citizen-
ship.16 Between these two decisions is a tension that should call
forth further litigation efforts to explore the meaning of the citizen-
ship sentence of the Fourteenth Amendment.

                  PRIVILEGES OR IMMUNITIES
     Unique among constitutional provisions, the clause prohibiting
state abridgement of the “privileges or immunities” of United States
citizens was rendered a “practical nullity” by a single decision of
the Supreme Court issued within five years of its ratification. In
the Slaughter-House Cases,17 the Court evaluated a Louisiana stat-
ute that conferred a monopoly upon a single corporation to engage
in the business of slaughtering cattle. In determining whether this
statute abridged the “privileges” of other butchers, the Court frus-
trated the aims of the most aggressive sponsors of the privileges or
immunities Clause. According to the Court, these sponsors had sought
to centralize “in the hands of the Federal Government large pow-
ers hitherto exercised by the States” by converting the rights of the
citizens of each state at the time of the adoption of the Fourteenth
Amendment into protected privileges and immunities of United States
citizenship. This interpretation would have allowed business to de-
velop unimpeded by state interference by limiting state laws “abridg-
ing” these privileges.
     According to the Court, however, such an interpretation would
have “transfer[red] the security and protection of all the civil rights
. . . to the Federal Government, . . . to bring within the power of
Congress the entire domain of civil rights heretofore belonging ex-
clusively to the States,” and would “constitute this court a per-
     15 Afroyim v. Rusk, 387 U.S. 253, 262–63 (1967). The Court went on to say, “It

is true that the chief interest of the people in giving permanence and security to
citizenship in the Fourteenth Amendment was the desire to protect Negroes. . . .
This undeniable purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment to make citizenship of Ne-
groes permanent and secure would be frustrated by holding that the government
can rob a citizen of his citizenship without his consent by simply proceeding to act
under an implied general power to regulate foreign affairs or some other power gen-
erally granted.” Four dissenters, Justices Harlan, Clark, Stewart, and White, contro-
verted the Court’s reliance on the history and meaning of the Fourteenth Amend-
ment and reasserted Justice Frankfurter’s previous reasoning in Perez. Id. at 268.
     16 Rogers v. Bellei, 401 U.S. 815 (1971). This, too, was a five-to-four decision,

with Justices Blackmun, Harlan, Stewart, and White, and Chief Justice Burger in
the majority, and Justices Black, Douglas, Brennan, and Marshall dissenting.
     17 83 U.S. (16 Wall.) 36, 71, 77–78 (1873).
