mortgages which were held by trusts, which had the affect of put-
ting an unexpected accumulation of real property into those trusts.
Under these circumstance, the Court upheld the retroactive appli-
cation of a statute reallocating distribution within these trusts, even
where the administration of the estate had already begun, and the
new statute had the effect of taking away a remainderman’s right
to judicial review of the trustee’s computation of income.332
    The states have significant discretion to regulate abandoned prop-
erty. For instance, states have several jurisdictional bases to allow
for the lawful application of escheat and abandoned property laws
to out-of-state corporations. Thus, application of New York’s Aban-
doned Property Law to New York residents’ life insurance policies,
even when issued by foreign corporations, did not deprive such com-
panies of property without due process, where the insured persons
had continued to be New York residents and the beneficiaries were
resident at the maturity date of the policies. The relationship be-
tween New York and its residents who abandon claims against for-
eign insurance companies, and between New York and foreign in-
surance companies doing business therein, is sufficiently close to give
New York jurisdiction.333 Or, in Standard Oil Co. v. New Jersey,334
a divided Court held that due process is not violated by a state stat-
ute escheating shares of stock in a domestic corporation, including
unpaid dividends, even though the last known owners were nonresi-
dents and the stock was issued and the dividends held in another
state. The state’s power over the debtor corporation gives it power
to seize the debts or demands represented by the stock and divi-
dends.
    A state’s wide discretion to define abandoned property and dis-
pose of abandoned property can be seen in Texaco v. Short,335 which
upheld an Indiana statute that terminated interests in coal, oil, gas,
or other minerals that had not been used in twenty years, and that
provided for reversion to the owner of the interest out of which the
mining interests had been carved. The “use” of a mineral interest
that could prevent its extinction included the actual or attempted
extraction of minerals, the payment of rents or royalties, and any
payment of taxes. Indeed, merely filing a claim with the local re-
     332 Demorest v. City Bank Co., 321 U.S. 36, 47–48 (1944). Under the peculiar

facts of the case, however, the remainderman’s right had been created by judicial
rules promulgated after the death of the decedent, so the case is not precedent for a
broad rule of retroactivity.
     333 Connecticut Ins. Co. v. Moore, 333 U.S. 541 (1948). Justices Jackson and Doug-

las dissented on the ground that New York was attempting to escheat unclaimed
funds not actually or constructively located in New York, and which were the prop-
erty of beneficiaries who may never have been citizens or residents of New York.
     334 341 U.S. 428 (1951).
     335 454 U.S. 516 (1982).
