    In reaching this finding the Court held that, while a state-
created obstacle need not be absolute to be impermissible, it must
at a minimum “unduly burden” the right to terminate a pregnancy.
And, the Court held, to allocate public funds so as to further a state
interest in normal childbirth does not create an absolute obstacle
to obtaining and does not unduly burden the right.590 What is inter-
esting about this holding is that the “undue burden” standard was
to take on new significance when the Court began raising ques-
tions about the scope and even the legitimacy of Roe.
    Although the Court expressly reaffirmed Roe v. Wade in 1983,591
its 1989 decision in Webster v. Reproductive Health Services 592 sig-
naled the beginning of a retrenchment. Webster upheld two aspects
of a Missouri statute regulating abortions: a prohibition on the use
of public facilities and employees to perform abortions not neces-
sary to save the life of the mother; and a requirement that a physi-
cian, before performing an abortion on a fetus she has reason to
believe has reached a gestational age of 20 weeks, make an actual
viability determination.593 This retrenchment was also apparent in
two 1990 cases in which the Court upheld both one-parent and two-
parent notification requirements.594
    590 “An indigent woman who desires an abortion suffers no disadvantage as a

consequence of Connecticut’s decision to fund childbirth; she continues as before to
be dependent on private sources for the services she desires. The State may have
made childbirth a more attractive alternative, thereby influencing the woman’s deci-
sion, but it has imposed no restriction on access to abortions that was not already
there.” Maher, 432 U.S. at 469–74 (the quoted sentence is at 474); Harris, 448 U.S.
at 321–26. Justices Brennan, Marshall, and Blackmun dissented in both cases and
Justice Stevens joined them in Harris. Applying the same principles, the Court held
that a municipal hospital could constitutionally provide hospital services for indi-
gent women for childbirth but deny services for abortion. Poelker v. Doe, 432 U.S.
519 (1977).
    591 City of Akron v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health, 462 U.S. 416, 419–20

(1983). In refusing to overrule Roe v. Wade, the Court merely cited the principle of
stare decisis. Justice Powell’s opinion of the Court was joined by Chief Justice Burger,
and by Justices Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, and Stevens. Justice O’Connor, joined
by Justices White and Rehnquist, dissented, voicing disagreement with the trimes-
ter approach and suggesting instead that throughout pregnancy the test should be
the same: whether state regulation constitutes “unduly burdensome interference with
[a woman’s] freedom to decide whether to terminate her pregnancy.” 462 U.S. at
452, 461. In the 1986 case of Thornburgh v. American College of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists, 476 U.S. 747 (1986), Justice White, joined by Justice Rehnquist, ad-
vocated overruling of Roe v. Wade, Chief Justice Burger thought Roe v. Wade had
been extended to the point where it should be reexamined, and Justice O’Connor
repeated misgivings expressed in her Akron dissent.
    592 492 U.S. 490 (1989).
    593 The Court declined to rule on several other aspects of Missouri’s law, includ-

ing a preamble stating that life begins at conception, and a prohibition on the use
of public funds to encourage or counsel a woman to have a nontherapeutic abortion.
    594 Ohio’s requirement that one parent be notified of a minor’s intent to obtain

an abortion, or that the minor use a judicial bypass procedure to obtain the ap-
proval of a juvenile court, was approved. Ohio v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health,
