     Though the calculus may vary, cases not involving detention also
are determined on a case-by-case basis using a balancing stan-
dard.753
     For instance, in a case involving a state proceeding to termi-
nate the parental rights of an indigent without providing her coun-
sel, the Court recognized the parent’s interest as “an extremely im-
portant one.” The Court, however, also noted the state’s strong interest
in protecting the welfare of children. Thus, as the interest in cor-
rect fact-finding was strong on both sides, the proceeding was rela-
tively simple, no features were present raising a risk of criminal
liability, no expert witnesses were present, and no “specially trouble-
some” substantive or procedural issues had been raised, the liti-
gant did not have a right to appointed counsel.754 In other due pro-
cess cases involving parental rights, the Court has held that due
process requires special state attention to parental rights.755 Thus,
it would appear likely that in other parental right cases, a right to
appointed counsel could be established.

The Procedure That Is Due Process
    The Interests Protected: “Life, Liberty and Property”.—
The language of the Fourteenth Amendment requires the provision
of due process when an interest in one’s “life, liberty or property” is
threatened.756 Traditionally, the Court made this determination by
reference to the common understanding of these terms, as embod-
ied in the development of the common law.757 In the 1960s, how-
     753 452 U.S. at 31–32. The balancing decision is to be made initially by the trial

judge, subject to appellate review. Id. at 32
     754 452 U.S. at 27–31. The decision was a five-to-four, with Justices Stewart,

White, Powell, and Rehnquist and Chief Justice Burger in the majority, and Jus-
tices Blackmun, Brennan, Marshall, and Stevens in dissent. Id. at 35, 59.
     755 See, e.g., Little v. Streater, 452 U.S. 1 (1981) (indigent entitled to state-

funded blood testing in a paternity action the state required to be instituted); Santosky
v. Kramer, 455 U.S. 745 (1982) (imposition of higher standard of proof in case involv-
ing state termination of parental rights).
     756 Morrissey v. Brewer, 408 U.S. 471, 481 (1982). “The requirements of proce-

dural due process apply only to the deprivation of interests encompassed by the Four-
teenth Amendment’s protection of liberty and property. When protected interests are
implicated, the right to some kind of prior hearing is paramount. But the range of
interests protected by procedural due process is not infinite.” Board of Regents v.
Roth, 408 U.S. 564, 569–71 (1972). Developments under the Fifth Amendment’s Due
Process Clause have been interchangeable. Cf. Arnett v. Kennedy, 416 U.S. 134 (1974).
     757 For instance, at common law, one’s right of life existed independently of any

formal guarantee of it and could be taken away only by the state pursuant to the
formal processes of law, and only for offenses deemed by a legislative body to be
particularly heinous. One’s liberty, generally expressed as one’s freedom from bodily
restraint, was a natural right to be forfeited only pursuant to law and strict formal
procedures. One’s ownership of lands, chattels, and other properties, to be sure, was
highly dependent upon legal protections of rights commonly associated with that own-
ership, but it was a concept universally understood in Anglo-American countries.
