submitting voluminous factual briefs, known as “Brandeis Briefs,” 100
replete with medical or other scientific data intended to establish
beyond question a substantial relationship between the challenged
statute and public health, safety, or morals. Whenever the Court
was disposed to uphold measures pertaining to industrial rela-
tions, such as laws limiting hours of work,101 it generally intimated
that the facts thus submitted by way of justification had been au-
thenticated sufficiently for it to take judicial cognizance thereof. On
the other hand, whenever it chose to invalidate comparable legisla-
tion, such as enactments establishing a minimum wage for women
and children,102 it brushed aside such supporting data, proclaimed
its inability to perceive any reasonable connection between the stat-
ute and the legitimate objectives of health or safety, and con-
demned the statute as an arbitrary interference with freedom of
contract.
     During the great Depression, however, the laissez faire tenet of
self-help was replaced by the belief that it is peculiarly the duty of
government to help those who are unable to help themselves. To
sustain this remedial legislation, the Court had to extensively re-
vise its previously formulated concepts of “liberty” under the Due
Process Clause. Thus, the Court, in overturning prior holdings and
sustaining minimum wage legislation,103 took judicial notice of the
demands for relief arising from the Depression. And, in upholding
state legislation designed to protect workers in their efforts to orga-
nize and bargain collectively, the Court reconsidered the scope of
an employer’s liberty of contract, and recognized a correlative lib-
erty of employees that state legislatures could protect.
    To the extent that it acknowledged that liberty of the indi-
vidual may be infringed by the coercive conduct of private individu-
als no less than by public officials, the Court in effect transformed
the Due Process Clause into a source of encouragement to state leg-
islatures to intervene affirmatively to mitigate the effects of such
coercion. By such modification of its views, liberty, in the constitu-
tional sense of freedom resulting from restraint upon government,

     100 Named for attorney (later Justice) Louis Brandeis, who presented volumi-

nous documentation to support the regulation of women’s working hours in Muller
v. Oregon, 208 U.S. 412 (1908).
     101 E.g., Muller v. Oregon; Bunting v. Oregon.
     102 See, e.g., Adkins v. Children’s Hospital, 261 U.S. 525 (1923).
     103 West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish, 300 U.S. 379 (1937). Thus the National La-

bor Relations Act was declared not to “interfere with the normal exercise of the right
of the employer to select its employees or to discharge them.” However, restraint of
the employer for the purpose of preventing an unjust interference with the correla-
tive right of his employees to organize was declared not to be arbitrary. NLRB v.
Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., 301 U.S. 1, 44, 45–46 (1937).
