be followed in state proceedings. Relevant issues, as discussed in
detail below, include notice, opportunity for hearing, confrontation
and cross-examination, discovery, basis of decision, and availability
of counsel. Substantive due process, although also based on prin-
ciples of “fundamental fairness,” is used to evaluate whether a law
can be applied by states at all, regardless of the procedure fol-
lowed. Substantive due process has generally dealt with specific sub-
ject areas, such as liberty of contract or privacy, and over time has
alternately emphasized the importance of economic and noneco-
nomic matters. In theory, the issues of procedural and substantive
due process are closely related. In reality, substantive due process
has had greater political import, as significant portions of a state
legislature’s substantive jurisdiction can be restricted by its appli-
cation.
     Although the extent of the rights protected by substantive due
process may be controversial, its theoretical basis is firmly estab-
lished and forms the basis for much of modern constitutional case
law. Passage of the Reconstruction Amendments (13th, 14th, and
15th) gave the federal courts the authority to intervene when a state
threatened fundamental rights of its citizens,39 and one of the most
important doctrines flowing from this is the application of the Bill
of Rights to the states through the Due Process Clause.40 Through
the process of “selective incorporation,” most of the provisions of the
first eight Amendments, such as free speech, freedom of religion,
and protection against unreasonable searches and seizures, are ap-
plied against the states as they are against the federal govern-
ment. Though application of these rights against the states is no
longer controversial, the incorporation of other substantive rights,
as is discussed in detail below, has been.
Definitions
    “Person”.—The Due Process Clause provides that no states shall
deprive any “person” of “life, liberty or property” without due pro-
cess of law. A historical controversy has been waged concerning
whether the framers of the Fourteenth Amendment intended the
word “person” to mean only natural persons, or whether the word
     39 The Privileges or Immunities Clause, more so than the Due Process Clause,

appears at first glance to speak directly to the issue of state intrusions on substan-
tive rights and privileges—“No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States . . . .” See AKHIL REED
AMAR, THE BILL OF RIGHTS 163–180 (1998). As discussed earlier, however, the Court
limited the effectiveness of that clause soon after the ratification of the 14th Amend-
ment. See Privileges or Immunities, supra. Instead, the Due Process Clause, though
selective incorporation, became the basis for the Court to recognize important sub-
stantive rights against the states.
     40 See Bill of Rights, Fourteenth Amendment, supra.
