if he penalizes the assertion of a right or privilege by the defen-
dant by charging more severely or recommending a longer sen-
tence.1158
    In accepting a guilty plea, the court must inquire whether the
defendant is pleading voluntarily, knowingly, and understand-
ingly,1159 and “the adjudicative element inherent in accepting a plea
of guilty must be attended by safeguards to insure the defendant
what is reasonably due in the circumstances. Those circumstances
will vary, but a constant factor is that, when a plea rests in any
significant degree on a promise or agreement of the prosecutor, so
that it can be said to be part of the inducement or consideration,
such promise must be fulfilled.” 1160



States v. Goodwin, 457 U.S. 368 (1982) (after defendant was charged with a misde-
meanor, refused to plead guilty and sought a jury trial in district court, the govern-
ment obtained a four-count felony indictment and conviction).
     1158 Blackledge v. Perry, 417 U.S. 21 (1974). Defendant was convicted in an in-

ferior court of a misdemeanor. He had a right to a de novo trial in superior court,
but when he exercised the right the prosecutor obtained a felony indictment based
upon the same conduct. The distinction the Court draws between this case and
Bordenkircher and Goodwin is that of pretrial conduct, in which vindictiveness is
not likely, and post-trial conduct, in which vindictiveness is more likely and is not
permitted. Accord, Thigpen v. Roberts, 468 U.S. 27 (1984). The distinction appears
to represent very fine line-drawing, but it appears to be one the Court is committed
to.
     1159 Boykin v. Alabama, 395 U.S. 238 (1969). In Henderson v. Morgan, 426 U.S.

637 (1976), the Court held that a defendant charged with first degree murder who
elected to plead guilty to second degree murder had not voluntarily, in the constitu-
tional sense, entered the plea because neither his counsel nor the trial judge had
informed him that an intent to cause the death of the victim was an essential ele-
ment of guilt in the second degree; consequently no showing was made that he know-
ingly was admitting such intent. “A plea may be involuntary either because the ac-
cused does not understand the nature of the constitutional protections that he is
waiving . . . or because he has such an incomplete understanding of the charge that
his plea cannot stand as an intelligent admission of guilt.” Id. at 645 n.13. However,
this does not mean that a court accepting a guilty plea must explain all the ele-
ments of a crime, as it may rely on counsel’s representations to the defendant. Bradshaw
v. Stumpf, 545 U.S. 175 (2005) (where defendant maintained that shooting was done
by someone else, guilty plea to aggravated manslaughter was still valid, as such
charge did not require defendant to be the shooter). See also Blackledge v. Allison,
431 U.S. 63 (1977) (defendant may collaterally challenge guilty plea where defen-
dant had been told not to allude to existence of a plea bargain in court, and such
plea bargain was not honored).
     1160 Santobello v. New York, 404 U.S. 257, 262 (1971). Defendant and a prosecu-

tor reached agreement on a guilty plea in return for no sentence recommendation
by the prosecution. At the sentencing hearing months later, a different prosecutor
recommended the maximum sentence, and that sentence was imposed. The Court
vacated the judgment, holding that the prosecutor’s entire staff was bound by the
promise. Prior to the plea, however, the prosecutor may withdraw his first offer, and
a defendant who later pled guilty after accepting a second, less attractive offer has
no right to enforcement of the first agreement. Mabry v. Johnson, 467 U.S. 504 (1984).
