be represented in the legislature in accordance with their propor-
tion of the population in the jurisdiction.1723
    It was anticipated that Regents of the University of California
v. Bakke 1724 would shed further light on the constitutionality of af-
firmative action. Instead, the Court again fragmented. In Bakke, the
Davis campus medical school admitted 100 students each year. Of
these slots, the school set aside 16 of those seats for disadvantaged
minority students, who were qualified but not necessarily as quali-
fied as those winning admission to the other 84 places. Twice de-
nied admission, Bakke sued, arguing that had the 16 positions not
been set aside he could have been admitted. The state court or-
dered him admitted and ordered the school not to consider race in
admissions. By two 5-to-4 votes, the Supreme Court affirmed the
order admitting Bakke but set aside the order forbidding the con-
sideration of race in admissions.1725
    Four Justices, in an opinion by Justice Brennan, argued that
racial classifications designed to further remedial purposes were not
foreclosed by the Constitution under appropriate circumstances. Even
ostensibly benign racial classifications, however, could be misused
and produce stigmatizing effects; therefore, they must be search-
ingly scrutinized by courts to ferret out these instances. But be-
nign racial preferences, unlike invidious discriminations, need not
be subjected to strict scrutiny; instead, an intermediate scrutiny would
do. As applied, then, this review would enable the Court to strike
down a remedial racial classification that stigmatized a group, that
singled out those least well represented in the political process to
     1723 430 U.S. at 165–68. Joining this part of the opinion were Justices Stevens

and Rehnquist. In a separate opinion, Justice Brennan noted that preferential race
policies were subject to several substantial arguments: (1) they may disguise a policy
that perpetuates disadvantageous treatment; (2) they may serve to stimulate soci-
ety’s latent race consciousness; (3) they may stigmatize recipient groups as much as
overtly discriminatory practices against them do; (4) they may be perceived by many
as unjust. The presence of the Voting Rights Act and the Attorney General’s super-
vision made the difference to him in this case. Id. at 168. Justices Stewart and Pow-
ell concurred, agreeing with Justice White that there was no showing of a purpose
on the legislature’s part to discriminate against white voters and that the effect of
the plan was insufficient to invalidate it. Id. at 179.
     1724 438 U.S. 265 (1978).
     1725 Four Justices did not reach the constitutional question. In their view, Title

VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which bars discrimination on the ground of race,
color, or national origin by any recipient of federal financial assistance, outlawed
the college’s program and made unnecessary any consideration of the Constitution.
See 78 Stat. 252, 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000d to 2000d–7. These Justices would have admit-
ted Bakke and barred the use of race in admissions. 438 U.S. at 408–21 (Justices
Stevens, Stewart, and Rehnquist and Chief Justice Burger). The remaining five Jus-
tices agreed among themselves that Title VI, on its face and in light of its legisla-
tive history, proscribed only what the Equal Protection Clause proscribed. 438 U.S.
at 284–87 (Justice Powell), 328–55 (Justices Brennan, White, Marshall, and Blackmun).
They thus reached the constitutional issue.
