     In making this decision, the Court noted that “[l]ooking back
over the long history of litigation a trend is clearly discernible to-
ward expanding the permissible scope of state jurisdiction over for-
eign corporations and other nonresidents.” 890 However, in Hanson
v. Denckla, decided during the same Term, the Court found in
personam jurisdiction lacking for the first time since International
Shoe Co. v. Washington, pronouncing firm due process limitations.
In Hanson,891 the issue was whether a Florida court considering a
contested will obtained jurisdiction over corporate trustees of dis-
puted property through use of ordinary mail and publication. The
will had been entered into and probated in Florida, the claimants
were resident in Florida and had been personally served, but the
trustees, who were indispensable parties, were resident in Dela-
ware. Noting the trend in enlarging the ability of the states to ob-
tain in personam jurisdiction over absent defendants, the Court de-
nied the exercise of nationwide in personam jurisdiction by states,
saying that “it would be a mistake to assume that th[e] trend [to
expand the reach of state courts] heralds the eventual demise of
all restrictions on the personal jurisdiction of state courts.” 892
    The Court recognized in Hanson that Florida law was the most
appropriate law to be applied in determining the validity of the will
and that the corporate defendants might be little inconvenienced
by having to appear in Florida courts, but it denied that either cir-
cumstance satisfied the Due Process Clause. The Court noted that
due process restrictions do more than guarantee immunity from in-
convenient or distant litigation, in that “[these restrictions] are con-
sequences of territorial limitations on the power of the respective
States. However minimal the burden of defending in a foreign tri-
bunal, a defendant may not be called upon to do so unless he has
rate official within the state on business of the corporation would suffice to create
jurisdiction if the claim arose out of that business and service were made on him
within the state. 342 U.S. at 444–45. The Court held that the state could, but was
not required to, assert jurisdiction over a corporation owning gold and silver mines
in the Philippines but temporarily (because of the Japanese occupation) carrying on
a part of its general business in the forum state, including directors’ meetings, busi-
ness correspondence, banking, and the like, although it owned no mining properties
in the state.
     890 McGee v. International Life Ins. Co., 355 U.S. 220, 222 (1957). An exception

exists with respect to in personam jurisdiction in domestic relations cases, at least
in some instances. E.g., Vanderbilt v. Vanderbilt, 354 U.S. 416 (1957) (holding that
sufficient contacts afforded Nevada in personam jurisdiction over a New York resi-
dent wife for purposes of dissolving the marriage but Nevada did not have jurisdic-
tion to terminate the wife’s claims for support).
     891 357 U.S. 235 (1958). The decision was 5-to-4. See 357 U.S. at 256 (Justice

Black dissenting), 262 (Justice Douglas dissenting).
     892 357 U.S. at 251. In dissent, Justice Black observed that “of course we have

not reached the point where state boundaries are without significance and I do not
mean to suggest such a view here.” 357 U.S. at 260.
