dents to solicit therein, and thus was held amenable to suit in Wash-
ington for unpaid unemployment compensation contributions for such
salesmen. A notice of assessment was served personally upon one
of the local sales solicitors, and a copy of the assessment was sent
by registered mail to the corporation’s principal office in Missouri,
and this was deemed sufficient to apprize the corporation of the pro-
ceeding.
     To reach this conclusion, the Court not only overturned prior
holdings that mere solicitation of business does not constitute a suf-
ficient contact to subject a foreign corporation to a state’s jurisdic-
tion,883 but also rejected the “presence” test as begging the ques-
tion to be decided. “The terms ‘present’ or ‘presence,’ ” according to
Chief Justice Stone, “are used merely to symbolize those activities
of the corporation’s agent within the State which courts will deem
to be sufficient to satisfy the demands of due process. . . . Those
demands may be met by such contacts of the corporation with the
State of the forum as make it reasonable, in the context of our fed-
eral system . . . , to require the corporation to defend the particu-
lar suit which is brought there; [and] . . . that the maintenance of
the suit does not offend ‘traditional notions of fair play and substan-
tial justice’. . . . An ‘estimate of the inconveniences’ which would
result to the corporation from a trial away from its ‘home’ or prin-
cipal place of business is relevant in this connection.” 884 As to the
scope of application to be accorded this “fair play and substantial
justice” doctrine, the Court concluded that “so far as . . . [corpo-
rate] obligations arise out of or are connected with activities within
the State, a procedure which requires the corporation to respond to
a suit brought to enforce them can, in most instances, hardly be
said to be undue.” 885
     Extending this logic, a majority of the Court ruled that an out-
of-state association selling mail order insurance had developed suf-
ficient contacts and ties with Virginia residents so that the state
could institute enforcement proceedings under its Blue Sky Law by
forwarding notice to the company by registered mail, notwithstand-
ing that the Association solicited business in Virginia solely through
recommendations of existing members and was represented therein

     883 This departure was recognized by Justice Rutledge subsequently in Nippert

v. City of Richmond, 327 U.S. 416, 422 (1946). Because International Shoe, in addi-
tion to having its agents solicit orders, also permitted them to rent quarters for the
display of merchandise, the Court could have used International Harvester Co. v.
Kentucky, 234 U.S. 579 (1914), to find it was “present” in the state.
     884 International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310, 316–17 (1945).
     885 326 U.S. at 319.
