ing upon the generalization that a woman would stay home and
take care of the children while a man would not. Because the Court
perceived the purpose of the provision to be to enable the surviving
parent to choose to remain at home to care for minor children, the
sex classification ill-fitted the end and was invidiously discrimina-
tory.
     But, when, in Califano v. Goldfarb,1824 the Court was con-
fronted with a Social Security provision structured much as the ben-
efit sections struck down in Frontiero and Wiesenfeld, even in the
light of an express heightened scrutiny, no majority of the Court
could be obtained for the reason for striking down the statute. The
section provided that a widow was entitled to receive survivors’ ben-
efits based on the earnings of her deceased husband, regardless of
dependency, but payments were to go to the widower of a deceased
wife only upon proof that he had been receiving at least half of his
support from her. The plurality opinion treated the discrimination
as consisting of disparate treatment of women wage-earners whose
tax payments did not earn the same family protection as male wage
earners’ taxes. Looking to the purpose of the benefits provision, the
plurality perceived it to be protection of the familial unit rather than
of the individual widow or widower and to be keyed to dependency
rather than need. The sex classification was thus found to be based
on an assumption of female dependency that ill-served the purpose
of the statute and was an ill-chosen proxy for the underlying quali-
fication. Administrative convenience could not justify use of such a
questionable proxy.1825 Justice Stevens, concurring, accepted most
of the analysis of the dissent but nonetheless came to the conclu-
sion of invalidity. His argument was essentially that while either
administrative convenience or a desire to remedy discrimination

      1824 430 U.S. 199 (1977). The dissent argued that whatever the classification used,

social insurance programs should not automatically be subjected to heightened scru-
tiny but rather only to traditional rationality review. Id. at 224 (Justice Rehnquist
with Chief Justice Burger and Justices Stewart and Blackmun). In Wengler v. Drug-
gists Mutual Ins. Co., 446 U.S. 142 (1980), voiding a state workers’ compensation
provision identical to that voided in Goldfarb, only Justice Rehnquist continued to
adhere to this view, although the others may have yielded only to precedent.
      1825 430 U.S. at 204–09, 212–17 (Justices Brennan, White, Marshall, and Pow-

ell). Congress responded by eliminating the dependency requirement but by adding
a pension offset provision reducing spousal benefits by the amount of various other
pensions received. Continuation in this context of the Goldfarb gender-based depen-
dency classification for a five-year “grace period” was upheld in Heckler v. Mathews,
465 U.S. 728 (1984), as directly and substantially related to the important govern-
mental interest in protecting against the effects of the pension offset the retirement
plans of individuals who had based their plans on unreduced pre-Goldfarb payment
levels.
