     Insurance Company Taxes.—A privilege tax on the gross pre-
miums received by a foreign life insurance company at its home of-
fice for business written in the state does not deprive the company
of property without due process,485 but such a tax is invalid if the
company has withdrawn all its agents from the state and has ceased
to do business there, merely continuing to receive the renewal pre-
miums at its home office.486 Also violating due process is a state
insurance premium tax imposed on a nonresident firm doing busi-
ness in the taxing jurisdiction, where the firm obtained the cover-
age of property within the state from an unlicenced out-of-state in-
surer that consummated the contract, serviced the policy, and collected
the premiums outside that taxing jurisdiction.487 However, a tax may
be imposed upon the privilege of entering and engaging in busi-
ness in a state, even if the tax is a percentage of the “annual pre-
miums to be paid throughout the life of the policies issued.” Under
this kind of tax, a state may continue to collect even after the com-
pany’s withdrawal from the state.488
     A state may lawfully extend a tax to a foreign insurance com-
pany that contracts with an automobile sales corporation in a third
state to insure customers of the automobile sales corporation against
loss of cars purchased through the automobile sales corporation, in-
sofar as the cars go into the possession of a purchaser within the
taxing state.489 On the other hand, a foreign corporation admitted
to do a local business, which insures its property with insurers in
other states who are not authorized to do business in the taxing
state, cannot constitutionally be subjected to a 5% tax on the amount
of premiums paid for such coverage.490 Likewise a Connecticut life
insurance corporation, licensed to do business in California, which
negotiated reinsurance contracts in Connecticut, received payment
of premiums on such contracts in Connecticut, and was liable in
Connecticut for payment of losses claimed under such contracts, can-
not be subjected by California to a privilege tax measured by gross
premiums derived from such contracts, notwithstanding that the con-
tracts reinsured other insurers authorized to do business in Califor-
dividends, he contended is “one wholly beyond the reach of Wisconsin’s sovereign
power, one which it cannot effectively command, or prohibit or condition.” The as-
sumption that a proportion of the dividends distributed is paid out of earnings in
Wisconsin for the year immediately preceding payment is arbitrary and not borne
out by the facts. Accordingly, “if the exaction is an income tax in any sense it is
such upon the stockholders (many of whom are nonresidents) and is obviously bad.”
See also Wisconsin v. Minnesota Mining Co., 311 U.S. 452 (1940).
    485 Equitable Life Society v. Pennsylvania, 238 U.S. 143 (1915).
    486 Provident Savings Ass’n v. Kentucky, 239 U.S. 103 (1915).
    487 State Bd. of Ins. v. Todd Shipyards, 370 U.S. 451 (1962).
    488 Continental Co. v. Tennessee, 311 U.S. 5, 6 (1940).
    489 Palmetto Ins. Co. v. Connecticut, 272 U.S. 295 (1926).
    490 St. Louis Compress Co. v. Arkansas, 260 U.S. 346 (1922).
