     Thus, the Court in Gault required that notice of charges be given
in time for the juvenile to prepare a defense, required a hearing in
which the juvenile could be represented by retained or appointed
counsel, required observance of the rights of confrontation and cross-
examination, and required that the juvenile be protected against
self-incrimination.1245 It did not pass upon the right of appeal or
the failure to make transcripts of hearings. Earlier, the Court had
held that before a juvenile could be “waived” to an adult court for
trial, there had to be a hearing and findings of reasons, a result
based on statutory interpretation but apparently constitutionalized
in Gault.1246 Subsequently, the Court held that the “essentials of
due process and fair treatment” required that a juvenile could be
adjudged delinquent only on evidence beyond a reasonable doubt
when the offense charged would be a crime if committed by an
adult,1247 but still later the Court held that jury trials were not con-
stitutionally required in juvenile trials.1248

washed walls, regimented routine and institutional hours . . . .’ Instead of mother
and father and sisters and brothers and friends and classmates, his world is peopled
by guards, custodians, state employees, and ‘delinquents’ confined with him for any-
thing from waywardness to rape and homicide. In view of this, it would be extraor-
dinary if our Constitution did not require the procedural regularity and the exercise
of care implied in the phrase ‘due process.’ Under our Constitution, the condition of
being a boy does not justify a kangaroo court.” 387 U.S. at 27–28.
     1245 387 U.S. at 31–35. Justice Harlan concurred in part and dissented in part,

id. at 65, agreeing on the applicability of due process but disagreeing with the stan-
dards of the Court. Justice Stewart dissented wholly, arguing that the application of
procedures developed for adversary criminal proceedings to juvenile proceedings would
endanger their objectives and contending that the decision was a backward step to-
ward undoing the reforms instituted in the past. Id. at 78.
     1246 Kent v. United States, 383 U.S. 541 (1966), noted on this point in In re Gault,

387 U.S. 1, 30–31 (1967).
     1247 In re Winship, 397 U.S. 358 (1970). Chief Justice Burger and Justice Stew-

art dissented, following essentially the Stewart reasoning in Gault. “The Court’s opin-
ion today rests entirely on the assumption that all juvenile proceedings are ‘crimi-
nal prosecutions,’ hence subject to constitutional limitation. . . . What the juvenile
court systems need is not more but less of the trappings of legal procedure and judi-
cial formalism; the juvenile system requires breathing room and flexibility in order
to survive, if it can survive the repeated assaults from this Court.” Id. at 375, 376.
Justice Black dissented because he did not think the reasonable doubt standard a
constitutional requirement at all. Id. at 377.
     1248 McKeiver v. Pennsylvania, 403 U.S. 528 (1971). No opinion was concurred

in by a majority of the Justices. Justice Blackmun’s opinion of the Court, which was
joined by Chief Justice Burger and Justices Stewart and White, reasoned that a
juvenile proceeding was not “a criminal prosecution” within the terms of the Sixth
Amendment, so that jury trials were not automatically required; instead, the prior
cases had proceeded on a “fundamental fairness” approach and in that regard a jury
was not a necessary component of fair factfinding and its use would have serious
repercussions on the rehabilitative and protection functions of the juvenile court.
Justice White also submitted a brief concurrence emphasizing the differences be-
tween adult criminal trials and juvenile adjudications. Id. at 551. Justice Brennan
concurred in one case and dissented in another because in his view open proceed-
ings would operate to protect juveniles from oppression in much the same way as a
