of state legislation, whether dealing with procedural or substantive
rights, were now subject to the scrutiny of the Court when ques-
tions of essential justice were raised.
    What induced the Court to overcome its fears of increased judi-
cial oversight and of upsetting the balance of powers between the
Federal Government and the states was state remedial social legis-
lation, enacted in the wake of industrial expansion, and the impact
of such legislation on property rights. The added emphasis on the
Due Process Clause also afforded the Court an opportunity to com-
pensate for its earlier nullification of much of the privileges or im-
munities clause of the Amendment. Legal theories about the rela-
tionship between the government powers and private rights were
available to demonstrate the impropriety of leaving to the state leg-
islatures the same ample range of police power they had enjoyed
prior to the Civil War. In the meantime, however, the Slaughter-
House Cases and Munn v. Illinois had to be overruled at least in
part.
     About twenty years were required to complete this process, in
the course of which two strands of reasoning were developed. The
first was a view advanced by Justice Field in a dissent in Munn v.
Illinois,69 namely, that state police power is solely a power to pre-
vent injury to the “peace, good order, morals, and health of the com-
munity.” 70 This reasoning was adopted by the Court in Mugler v.
Kansas,71 where, despite upholding a state alcohol regulation, the
Court held that “[i]t does not at all follow that every statute en-
acted ostensibly for the promotion of [public health, morals or safety]
is to be accepted as a legitimate exertion of the police powers of
the state.” The second strand, which had been espoused by Justice
Bradley in his dissent in the Slaughter-House Cases,72 tentatively
transformed ideas embodying the social compact and natural rights

    69  94 U.S. 113, 141–48 (1877).
    70  “It is true that the legislation which secures to all protection in their rights,
and the equal use and enjoyment of their property, embraces an almost infinite va-
riety of subjects. Whatever affects the peace, good order, morals, and health of the
community, comes within its scope; and every one must use and enjoy his property
subject to the restrictions which such legislation imposes. What is termed the police
power of the State, which, from the language often used respecting it, one would
suppose to be an undefined and irresponsible element in government, can only inter-
fere with the conduct of individuals in their intercourse with each other, and in the
use of their property, so far as may be required to secure these objects. The compen-
sation which the owners of property, not having any special rights or privileges from
the government in connection with it, may demand for its use, or for their own ser-
vices in union with it, forms no element of consideration in prescribing regulations
for that purpose.” 94 U.S. at 145–46.
     71 123 U.S. 623, 661 (1887).
     72 83 U.S. (16 Wall.) 36, 113–14, 116, 122 (1873).
