    The Problem of the Juvenile Offender.—All fifty states and
the District of Columbia provide for dealing with juvenile offenders
outside the criminal system for adult offenders.1241 Their juvenile
justice systems apply both to offenses that would be criminal if com-
mitted by an adult and to delinquent behavior not recognizable un-
der laws dealing with adults, such as habitual truancy, deportment
endangering the morals or health of the juvenile or others, or dis-
obedience making the juvenile uncontrollable by his parents. The
reforms of the early part of the 20th century provided not only for
segregating juveniles from adult offenders in the adjudication, de-
tention, and correctional facilities, but they also dispensed with the
substantive and procedural rules surrounding criminal trials which
were mandated by due process. Justification for this abandonment
of constitutional guarantees was offered by describing juvenile courts
as civil not criminal and as not dispensing criminal punishment,
and offering the theory that the state was acting as parens patriae
for the juvenile offender and was in no sense his adversary.1242
    Disillusionment with the results of juvenile reforms coupled with
judicial emphasis on constitutional protection of the accused led in
the 1960s to a substantial restriction of these elements of juvenile
jurisprudence. After tracing in much detail this history of juvenile
courts, the Court held in In re Gault 1243 that the application of due
process to juvenile proceedings would not endanger the good inten-
tions vested in the system nor diminish the features of the system
which were deemed desirable—emphasis upon rehabilitation rather
than punishment, a measure of informality, avoidance of the stigma
of criminal conviction, the low visibility of the process—but that the
consequences of the absence of due process standards made their
application necessary.1244
their sentences commuted were promptly paroled. In Van Curen, the Court made
express what had been implicit in Dumschat; the “mutually explicit understand-
ings” concept under which some property interests are found protected does not ap-
ply to liberty interests. Van Curen is also interesting because there the parole board
had granted the petition for parole but within days revoked it before the prisoner
was released, upon being told that he had lied at the hearing before the board.
     1241 For analysis of the state laws as well as application of constitutional prin-

ciples to juveniles, see SAMUEL M. DAVIS, RIGHTS OF JUVENILES: THE JUVENILE JUSTICE SYS-
TEM (2d ed. 2006).
     1242 In re Gault, 387 U.S. 1, 12–29 (1967).
     1243 387 U.S. 1 (1967).
     1244 “Ultimately, however, we confront the reality of that portion of the juvenile

court process with which we deal in this case. A boy is charged with misconduct.
The boy is committed to an institution where he may be restrained of liberty for
years. It is of no constitutional consequence—and of limited practical meaning—
that the institution to which he is committed is called an Industrial School. The
fact of the matter is that, however euphemistic the title, a ‘receiving home’ or an
‘industrial school’ for juveniles is an institution of confinement in which the child is
incarcerated for a greater or lesser time. His world becomes ‘a building with white-
