Michael M. involved the constitutionality of a statute that pun-
ished males, but not females, for having sexual intercourse with a
nonspousal person under 18 years of age. The plurality and the con-
currence generally agreed, but with some difference of emphasis,
that, although the law was founded on a clear sex distinction, it
was justified because it served an important governmental interest—
the prevention of teenage pregnancies. Inasmuch as women may be-
come pregnant and men may not, women would be better deterred
by that biological fact, and men needed the additional legal deter-
rence of a criminal penalty. Thus, the law recognized that, for pur-
poses of this classification, men and women were not similarly situ-
ated, and the statute did not deny equal protection.1830
     Cases of “benign” discrimination, that is, statutory classifica-
tions that benefit women and disadvantage men in order to over-
come the effects of past societal discrimination against women, have
presented the Court with some difficulty. Although the first two cases
were reviewed under apparently traditional rational basis scrutiny,
the more recent cases appear to subject these classifications to the
same intermediate standard as any other sex classification. Kahn
v. Shevin 1831 upheld a state property tax exemption allowing wid-
ows but not widowers a $500 exemption. In justification, the state
had presented extensive statistical data showing the substantial eco-
nomic and employment disabilities of women in relation to men. The
provision, the Court found, was “reasonably designed to further the
state policy of cushioning the financial impact of spousal loss upon
the sex for whom that loss imposes a disproportionately heavy bur-
den.” 1832 And, in Schlesinger v. Ballard,1833 the Court sustained a
provision requiring the mandatory discharge from the Navy of a male
officer who has twice failed of promotion to certain levels, which in
Ballard’s case meant discharge after nine years of service, whereas
women officers were entitled to 13 years of service before manda-
tory discharge for want of promotion. The difference was held to be
a rational recognition of the fact that male and female officers were
dissimilarly situated and that women had far fewer promotional op-
portunities than men had.
     Although in each of these cases the Court accepted the prof-
fered justification of remedial purpose without searching inquiry, later
cases caution that “the mere recitation of a benign, compensatory
      1830 450 U.S. at 470–74, 481. The dissents questioned both whether the preg-

nancy deterrence rationale was the purpose underlying the distinction and whether,
if it was, the classification was substantially related to achievement of the goal. Id.
at 488, 496.
      1831 416 U.S. 351 (1974).
      1832 416 U.S. at 355.
      1833 419 U.S. 498 (1975).
