situs. During this interval, 1930–1932, multiple transfer taxation
of intangibles came to be viewed, not merely as undesirable, but as
so arbitrary and unreasonable as to be prohibited by the Due Pro-
cess Clause.
    The Court has expressly overruled only one of these four deci-
sions condemning multiple succession taxation of intangibles. In 1939,
in Curry v. McCanless, the Court announced a departure from “[t]he
doctrine, of recent origin, that the Fourteenth Amendment pre-
cludes the taxation of any interest in the same intangible in more
than one state . . . .” 462 Taking cognizance of the fact that this doc-
trine had never been extended to the field of income taxation or
consistently applied in the field of property taxation, the Court de-
clared that a correct interpretation of constitutional requirements
would dictate the following conclusions: “From the beginning of our
constitutional system control over the person at the place of his do-
micile and his duty there, common to all citizens, to contribute to
the support of government have been deemed to afford an ad-
equate constitutional basis for imposing on him a tax on the use
and enjoyment of rights in intangibles measured by their value. . . .
But when the taxpayer extends his activities with respect to his
intangibles, so as to avail himself of the protection and benefit of
the laws of another state, in such a way as to bring his person or
property within the reach of the tax gatherer there, the reason for
a single place of taxation no longer obtains . . . . [However], the
state of domicile is not deprived, by the taxpayer’s activities else-
where, of its constitutional jurisdiction to tax . . . .” 463
    In accordance with this line of reasoning, the domicile of a de-
cedent (Tennessee) and the state where a trust received securities
conveyed from the decedent by will (Alabama) were both allowed
to impose a tax on the transfer of these securities. “In effecting her
purposes, the testatrix brought some of the legal interests which
she created within the control of one state by selecting a trustee
there and others within the control of the other state by making
her domicile there. She necessarily invoked the aid of the law of
both states, and her legatees, before they can secure and enjoy the
benefits of succession, must invoke the law of both.” 464

    462  307 U.S. 357, 363 (1939).
    463  307 U.S. at 366, 367, 368.
     464 307 U.S. at 372. These statements represented a belated adoption of the views

advanced by Chief Justice Stone in dissenting or concurring opinions that he filed
in three of the four decisions during 1930–1932. By the line of reasoning taken in
these opinions, if protection or control was extended to, or exercised over, intan-
gibles or the person of their owner, then as many states as afforded such protection
or were capable of exerting such dominion should be privileged to tax the transfer
