ing with referenda-approved restrictions on busing and other rem-
edies in Washington State and California.1653 Voters in Washing-
ton, following a decision by the school board in Seattle to undertake
a mandatory busing program, approved an initiative that prohib-
ited school boards from assigning students to any but the nearest
or next nearest school that offered the students’ course of study;
there were so many exceptions, however, that the prohibition in ef-
fect applied only to busing for racial purposes. In California the state
courts had interpreted the state constitution to require school sys-
tems to eliminate both de jure and de facto segregation. The voters
approved an initiative that prohibited state courts from ordering
busing unless the segregation was in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment, and a federal judge would be empowered to order it
under United States Supreme Court precedents.
     By a narrow division, the Court held unconstitutional the Wash-
ington measure, and, with near unanimity of result if not of reason-
ing, it sustained the California measure. The constitutional flaw in
the Washington measure, the Court held, was that it had chosen a
racial classification—busing for desegregation—and imposed more
severe burdens upon those seeking to obtain such a policy than it
imposed with respect to any other policy. Local school boards could
make education policy on anything but busing. By singling out bus-
ing and making it more difficult than anything else, the voters had
expressly and knowingly enacted a law that had an intentional im-
pact on a minority.1654 The Court discerned no such impediment in
the California measure, a simple repeal of a remedy that had been
within the government’s discretion to provide. Moreover, the state
continued under an obligation to alleviate de facto segregation by
every other feasible means. The initiative had merely foreclosed one
particular remedy—court-ordered mandatory busing—as inappropri-
ate.1655
     Termination of Court Supervision.—With most school de-
segregation decrees having been entered decades ago, the issue
arose as to what showing of compliance is necessary for a school
district to free itself of continuing court supervision. The Court
     1653 Washington v. Seattle School Dist., 458 U.S. 457 (1982); Crawford v. Los

Angeles Bd. of Educ., 458 U.S. 527 (1982). The decisions were in essence an applica-
tion of Hunter v. Erickson, 393 U.S. 385 (1969).
     1654 Washington v. Seattle School Dist., 458 U.S. 457, 470–82 (1982). Justice

Blackmun wrote the opinion of the Court and was joined by Justices Brennan, White,
Marshall, and Stevens. Dissenting were Justices Powell, Rehnquist, O’Connor, and
Chief Justice Burger. Id. at 488. The dissent essentially argued that because the
state was ultimately entirely responsible for all educational decisions, its choice to
take back part of the power it had delegated did not raise the issues the majority
thought it did.
     1655 Crawford v. Los Angeles Bd. of Educ., 458 U.S. 527, 535–40 (1982).
