bear the brunt of the program, or that was not justified by an im-
portant and articulated purpose.1726
    Justice Powell, however, argued that all racial classifications are
suspect and require strict scrutiny. Because none of the justifica-
tions asserted by the college met this high standard of review, he
would have invalidated the program. But he did perceive justifica-
tions for a less rigid consideration of race as one factor among many
in an admissions program; diversity of student body was an impor-
tant and protected interest of an academy and would justify an ad-
missions set of standards that made affirmative use of race. Amelio-
rating the effects of past discrimination would justify the remedial
use of race, the Justice thought, when the entity itself had been
found by appropriate authority to have discriminated, but the col-
lege could not inflict harm upon other groups in order to remedy
past societal discrimination.1727 Justice Powell thus agreed that Bakke
should be admitted, but he joined the four justices who sought to
allow the college to consider race to some degree in its admis-
sions.1728
    The Court then began a circuitous route toward disfavoring af-
firmative action, at least when it occurs outside the education con-
text. At first, the Court seemed inclined to extend the result in Bakke.
In Fullilove v. Klutznick,1729 the Court, still lacking a majority opin-
ion, upheld a federal statute requiring that at least ten percent of
public works funds be set aside for minority business enterprises.
A series of opinions by six Justices all recognized that alleviation
and remediation of past societal discrimination was a legitimate goal
and that race was a permissible classification to use in remedying
the present effects of past discrimination. Chief Judge Burger is-
sued the judgment, which emphasized Congress’s preeminent role
under the Commerce Clause and the Fourteenth Amendment to de-
termine the existence of past discrimination and its continuing ef-
fects and to implement remedies that were race conscious in order
to cure those effects. The principal concurring opinion by Justice
Marshall applied the Brennan analysis in Bakke, using middle-tier
scrutiny to hold that the race conscious set-aside was “substan-

     1726 438 U.S. at 355–79 (Justices Brennan, White, Marshall, and Blackmun). The

intermediate standard of review adopted by the four Justices is that formulated for
gender cases. “Racial classifications designed to further remedial purposes ‘must serve
important governmental objectives and must be substantially related to achieve-
ment of those objectives.’ ” Id. at 359.
     1727 438 U.S. at 287–320.
     1728 See 438 U.S. at 319–20 (Justice Powell).
     1729 448 U.S. 448 (1980). Justice Stewart, joined by Justice Rehnquist, dis-

sented in one opinion, id. at 522, while Justice Stevens dissented in another. Id. at
532.
