ful death of the child but that allowed the father to sue only if he
had legitimated the child and there is no mother.1820 Similarly, the
Court let stand, under the Fifth Amendment, a federal statute that
required that, in order for an illegitimate child born overseas to gain
citizenship, a citizen father, unlike a citizen mother, must acknowl-
edge or legitimate the child before the child’s 18th birthday.1821 The
Court emphasized the ready availability of proof of a child’s mater-
nity as opposed to paternity, but the dissent questioned whether
such a distinction was truly justified under strict scrutiny consider-
ing the ability of modern techniques of DNA paternity testing to
settle concerns about legitimacy.
    As in the instance of illegitimacy classifications, the issue of sex
qualifications for the receipt of governmental financial benefits has
divided the Court and occasioned close distinctions. A statutory scheme
under which a serviceman could claim his spouse as a “dependent”
for allowances while a servicewoman’s spouse was not considered a
“dependent” unless he was shown in fact to be dependent upon her
for more than one half of his support was held an invalid dissimi-
lar treatment of similarly situated men and women, not justified
by the administrative convenience rationale.1822 In Weinberger v.
Wiesenfeld,1823 the Court struck down a Social Security provision
that gave survivor’s benefits based on the insured’s earnings to the
widow and minor children but gave such benefits only to the chil-
dren and not to the widower of a deceased woman worker. Focus-
ing not only upon the discrimination against the widower but pri-
marily upon the discrimination visited upon the woman worker whose
earnings did not provide the same support for her family that a
male worker’s did, the Court saw the basis for the distinction rest-
    1820 Parham v. Hughes, 441 U.S. 347, 361 (1979). There was no opinion of the

Court, but both opinions making up the result emphasized that the objective of the
state—to avoid difficulties in proving paternity—was an important one and was ad-
vanced by the classification. The plurality opinion determined that the statute did
not invidiously discriminate against men as a class; it was no overbroad generaliza-
tion but proceeded from the fact that only men could legitimate children by unilat-
eral action. The sexes were not similarly situated, therefore, and the classification
recognized that. As a result, all that was required was that the means be a rational
way of dealing with the problem of proving paternity. Id. at 353–58. Justice Powell
found the statute valid because the sex-based classification was substantially re-
lated to the objective of avoiding problems of proof in proving paternity. He also
emphasized that the father had it within his power to remove the bar by legitimat-
ing the child. Id. at 359. Justices White, Brennan, Marshall, and Blackmun, who
had been in the majority in Caban, dissented.
    1821 Nguyen v. INS, 533 U.S. 53 (2001). See also Miller v. Albright, 523 U.S. 420

(1998) (opinion by Justice Stevens, joined by Justice Rehnquist) (equal protection
not violated where paternity of a child of a citizen mother is established at birth,
but child of citizen father must establish paternity by age 18).
    1822 Frontiero v. Richardson, 411 U.S. 677 (1973).
    1823 420 U.S. 636 (1975).
