against female spouses could justify use of a sex classification, nei-
ther purpose was served by the sex classification actually used in
this statute.1826
     Again, the Court divided closely when it sustained two in-
stances of classifications claimed to constitute sex discrimination.
In Rostker v. Goldberg,1827 rejecting presidential recommendations,
Congress provided for registration only of males for a possible fu-
ture military draft, excluding women altogether. The Court dis-
cussed but did not explicitly choose among proffered equal protec-
tion standards, but it apparently applied the intermediate test of
Craig v. Boren. However, it did so in the context of its often-stated
preference for extreme deference to military decisions and to con-
gressional resolution of military decisions. Evaluating the congres-
sional determination, the Court found that it has not been “unthink-
ing” or “reflexively” based upon traditional notions of the differences
between men and women; rather, Congress had extensively deliber-
ated over its decision. It had found, the Court asserted, that the
purpose of registration was the creation of a pool from which to draw
combat troops when needed, an important and indeed compelling
governmental interest, and the exclusion of women was not only
“sufficiently but closely” related to that purpose because they were
ill-suited for combat, could be excluded from combat, and register-
ing them would be too burdensome to the military system.1828
    In Michael M. v. Superior Court,1829 the Court expressly ad-
opted the Craig v. Boren intermediate standard, but its application
of the test appeared to represent a departure in several respects
from prior cases in which it had struck down sex classifications.
      1826 430 U.S. at 217. Justice Stevens adhered to this view in Wengler v. Drug-

gists Mutual Ins. Co., 446 U.S. 142, 154 (1980). Note the unanimity of the Court on
the substantive issue, although it was divided on remedy, in voiding in Califano v.
Westcott, 443 U.S. 76 (1979), a Social Security provision giving benefits to families
with dependent children who have been deprived of parental support because of the
unemployment of the father but giving no benefits when the mother is unemployed.
      1827 453 U.S. 57 (1981). Joining the opinion of the Court were Justices Rehnquist,

Stewart, Blackmun, Powell, and Stevens, and Chief Justice Burger. Dissenting were
Justices White, Marshall, and Brennan. Id. at 83, 86.
      1828 453 U.S. at 69–72, 78–83. The dissent argued that registered persons would

fill noncombat positions as well as combat ones and that drafting women would add
to women volunteers providing support for combat personnel and would free up men
in other positions for combat duty. Both dissents assumed without deciding that ex-
clusion of women from combat served important governmental interests. Id. at 83,
93. The majority’s reliance on an administrative convenience argument, it should be
noted, id. at 81, was contrary to recent precedent. See discussion of Orr v. Orr, su-
pra.
      1829 450 U.S. 464 (1981). Joining the opinion of the Court were Justices Rehnquist,

Stewart, and Powell, and Chief Justice Burger, constituting only a plurality. Justice
Blackmun concurred in a somewhat more limited opinion. Id. at 481. Dissenting were
Justices Brennan, White, Marshall, and Stevens. Id. at 488, 496.
