nate between the ‘rich’ and the ‘poor’ in its system of criminal ap-
peals. That statement of course commands support, but it hardly
sheds light on the true character of the problem confronting us
here. . . . All that Illinois has done is to fail to alleviate the conse-
quences of differences in economic circumstances that exist wholly
apart from any state action.” A fee system neutral on its face was
not a classification forbidden by the Equal Protection Clause. “[N]o
economic burden attendant upon the exercise of a privilege bears
equally upon all, and in other circumstances the resulting differen-
tiation is not treated as an invidious classification by the State, even
though discrimination against ‘indigents’ by name would be uncon-
stitutional.” 2017 As he protested in Douglas: “The States, of course,
are prohibited by the Equal Protection Clause from discriminating
between ‘rich’ and ‘poor’ as such in the formulation and application
of their laws. But it is a far different thing to suggest that this pro-
vision prevents the State from adopting a law of general applicabil-
ity that may affect the poor more harshly than it does the rich, or,
on the other hand, from making some effort to redress economic
imbalances while not eliminating them entirely.” 2018
     Due process furnished the standard, Justice Harlan felt, for de-
termining whether fundamental fairness had been denied. Where
an appeal was barred altogether by the imposition of a fee, the line
might have been crossed to unfairness, but on the whole he did not
see that a system that merely recognized differences between and
among economic classes, which as in Douglas made an effort to ame-
liorate the fact of the differences by providing appellate scrutiny of
cases of right, was a system that denied due process.2019
     The Court has reiterated that both due process and equal pro-
tection concerns are implicated by restrictions on indigents’ exer-
cise of the right of appeal. “In cases like Griffin and Douglas, due
process concerns were involved because the States involved had set
up a system of appeals as of right but had refused to offer each
defendant a fair opportunity to obtain an adjudication on the mer-
its of his appeal. Equal protection concerns were involved because
the State treated a class of defendants—indigent ones—differently
for purposes of offering them a meaningful appeal.” 2020
    Criminal Procedure.—Criminal appeals“ [I]t is now fundamen-
tal that, once established, . . . avenues [of appellate review] must
be kept free of unreasoned distinctions that can only impede open
    2017 Griffin v. Illinois, 351 U.S. 12, 34, 35 (1956).
    2018 Douglas v. California, 372 U.S. 353, 361 (1963).
    2019 372 U.S. at 363–67.
    2020 Evitts v. Lucey, 469 U.S. 387, 405 (1985) (holding that due process requires

that counsel provided for appeals as of right must be effective).
