property-rich districts, except in random instances. Second, the Court
held, there must be an absolute deprivation of some right or inter-
est rather than merely a relative one before the deprivation be-
cause of inability to pay will bring into play strict scrutiny. “The
individuals, or groups of individuals, who constituted the class dis-
criminated against in our prior cases shared two distinguishing char-
acteristics: because of their impecunity they were completely un-
able to pay for some desired benefit, and as a consequence, they
sustained an absolute deprivation of a meaningful opportunity to
enjoy that benefit.” 2057 No such class had been identified here and
more importantly no one was being absolutely denied an educa-
tion; the argument was that it was a lower quality education than
that available in other districts. Even assuming that to be the case,
however, it did not create a suspect classification.
     Education is an important value in our society, the Court agreed,
being essential to the effective exercise of freedom of expression and
intelligent utilization of the right to vote. But a right to education
is not expressly protected by the Constitution, continued the Court,
nor should it be implied simply because of its undoubted impor-
tance. The quality of education increases the effectiveness of speech
or the ability to make informed electoral choice but the judiciary is
unable to determine what level of quality would be sufficient. More-
over, the system under attack did not deny educational opportunity
to any child, whatever the result in that case might be; it was at-
tacked for providing relative differences in spending and those dif-
ferences could not be correlated with differences in educational qual-
ity.2058
     Rodriguez clearly promised judicial restraint in evaluating chal-
lenges to the provision of governmental benefits when the effect is
relatively different because of the wealth of some of the recipients
or potential recipients and when the results, what is obtained, vary
in relative degrees. Wealth or indigency is not a per se suspect clas-
sification but it must be related to some interest that is fundamen-
tal, and Rodriguez doctrinally imposed a considerable barrier to the
discovery or creation of additional fundamental interests. As the de-
cisions reviewed earlier with respect to marriage and the family re-
veal, that barrier has not held entirely firm, but within a range of

    2057 411 U.S. at 20. But see id. at 70, 117–24 (Justices Marshall and Douglas

dissenting).
    2058 411 U.S. at 29–39. But see id. at 62 (Justice Brennan dissenting), 70, 110–17

(Justices Marshall and Douglas dissenting).
