a significant role in the decision to enact” the statute, the statute
was “supported by valid neutral justifications.” 2044 Justice Scalia,
in his concurring opinion, would not only have upheld the statute
on its face, but would have ruled out as-applied challenges as well,
on the ground that “[t]he Indiana photo-identification law is a gen-
erally applicable, nondiscriminatory voting regulation,” and, “with-
out proof of discriminatory intent, a generally applicable law with
disparate impact is not unconstitutional.” 2045 Justice Souter, in his
dissenting opinion, found the statute unconstitutional because “a State
may not burden the right to vote merely by invoking abstract inter-
ests, be they legitimate or even compelling, but must make a par-
ticular, factual showing that threats to its interests outweigh the
particular impediments it has imposed. . . . The Indiana Voter ID
Law is thus unconstitutional: the state interests fail to justify the
practical limitations placed on the right to vote, and the law im-
poses an unreasonable and irrelevant burden on voters who are poor
and old.” 2046
     Access to Courts.—In Boddie v. Connecticut,2047 Justice Har-
lan carried a majority of the Court with him in using a due process
analysis to evaluate the constitutionality of a state’s filing fees in
divorce actions that a group of welfare assistance recipients at-
tacked as preventing them from obtaining divorces. The Court found
that, when the state monopolized the avenues to a pacific settle-
ment of a dispute over a fundamental matter such as marriage—
only the state could terminate the marital status—then it denied
due process by inflexibly imposing fees that kept some persons from
using that avenue. Justice Harlan’s opinion averred that a facially
neutral law or policy that did in fact deprive an individual of a pro-
tected right would be held invalid even though as a general propo-
sition its enforcement served a legitimate governmental interest. The
opinion concluded with a cautioning observation that the case was
not to be taken as establishing a general right to access to the courts.
     The Boddie opinion left unsettled whether a litigant’s interest
in judicial access to effect a pacific settlement of some dispute was
an interest entitled to some measure of constitutional protection as
a value of independent worth or whether a litigant must be seek-
ing to resolve a matter involving a fundamental interest in the only
forum in which any resolution was possible. Subsequent decisions
established that the latter answer was the choice of the Court. In
      2044 128 S. Ct. at 1624. “[A]ll of the Republicans in the [Indiana] General Assem-

bly voted in favor of [the statute] and the Democrats were unanimous in opposing
it.” Id. at 1623.
      2045 128 S. Ct. at 1625, 1626.
      2046 128 S. Ct. 1627, 1643 (citations omitted).
      2047 401 U.S. 371 (1971).
