ing powers.1746 This meant that the governmental interest fur-
thered by a race-conscious policy need not be remedial, but could
be a less focused interest such as broadcast diversity. Secondly, as
noted above, the Court eschewed strict scrutiny analysis: the gov-
ernmental interest need only be “important” rather than “compel-
ling,” and the means adopted need only be “substantially related”
rather than “narrowly tailored” to furthering the interest.
     The distinction between federal and state power to apply racial
classifications, however, proved ephemeral. The Court ruled in Adarand
Constructors, Inc. v. Pena 1747 that racial classifications imposed by
federal law must be analyzed by the same strict scrutiny standard
that is applied to evaluate state and local classifications based on
race. The Court overruled Metro Broadcasting and, to the extent
that it applied a review standard less stringent than strict scru-
tiny, Fullilove v. Klutznick. Strict scrutiny is to be applied regard-
less of the race of those burdened or benefitted by the particular
classification; there is no intermediate standard applicable to “be-
nign” racial classifications. The underlying principle, the Court ex-
plained, is that the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments protect per-
sons, not groups. It follows, therefore, that classifications based on
the group characteristic of race “should be subjected to detailed ju-
dicial inquiry to ensure that the personal right to equal protection
. . . has not been infringed.” 1748
     By applying strict scrutiny, the Court was in essence affirming
Justice Powell’s individual opinion in Bakke, which posited a strict
scrutiny analysis of affirmative action. There remained the ques-
tion, however, whether Justice Powell’s suggestion that creating a
diverse student body in an educational setting was a compelling gov-
ernmental interest that would survive strict scrutiny analysis. It
engendered some surprise, then, that the Court essentially reaf-
firmed Justice Powell’s line of reasoning in the cases of Grutter v.
Bollinger,1749 and Gratz v. Bollinger.1750
     In Grutter, the Court considered the admissions policy of the
University of Michigan Law School, which requires admissions offi-
cials to evaluate each applicant based on all the information avail-
able in their file (e.g., grade point average, Law School Admissions
     1746 497 U.S. at 563 & n.11. For the dissenting views of Justice O’Connor see id.

at 606–07. See also Croson, 488 U.S. at 504 (opinion of Court).
     1747 515 U.S. 200 (1995). This was a 5–4 decision. Justice O’Connor’s opinion

for Court was joined by Chief Justice Rehnquist, and by Justices Kennedy, Thomas,
and—to the extent not inconsistent with his own concurring opinion—Scalia. Jus-
tices Stevens, Souter, Ginsburg and Breyer dissented.
     1748 515 U.S. at 227 (emphasis original).
     1749 539 U.S. 306 (2003).
     1750 539 U.S. 244 (2003).
