    Northern Schools: Inter- and Intradistrict Desegregation.—
The appearance in the Court of school cases from large metropoli-
tan areas in which the separation of the races was not mandated
by law but allegedly by official connivance through zoning of school
boundaries, pupil and teacher assignment policies, and site selec-
tions, required the development of standards for determining when
segregation was de jure and what remedies should be imposed when
such official separation was found.1627
    Accepting the findings of lower courts that the actions of local
school officials and the state school board were responsible in part
for the racial segregation existing within the school system of the
City of Detroit, the Court in Milliken v. Bradley 1628 set aside a de-
segregation order which required the formulation of a plan for a
metropolitan area including the City and 53 adjacent suburban school
districts. The basic holding of the Court was that such a remedy
could be implemented only to cure an inter-district constitutional
violation, a finding that the actions of state officials and of the sub-
urban school districts were responsible, at least in part, for the
interdistrict segregation, through either discriminatory actions within
those jurisdictions or constitutional violations within one district that
had produced a significant segregative effect in another district.1629
The permissible scope of an inter-district order, however, would have
to be considered in light of the Court’s language regarding the value
placed upon local educational units. “No single tradition in public
education is more deeply rooted than local control over the opera-
tion of schools; local autonomy has long been thought essential both
to the maintenance of community concern and support for public
schools and to quality of the educational process.” 1630 Too, the com-
plexity of formulating and overseeing the implementation of a plan
that would effect a de facto consolidation of multiple school dis-
ment a new plan to undo the segregative effects of shifting residential patterns. The
Court agreed with the dissenters, Justices Marshall and Brennan, id. at 436, 441,
that the school board had not complied in other respects, such as in staff hiring and
promotion, but it thought that was irrelevant to the issue of neutral student assign-
ments.
     1627 The presence or absence of a statute mandating separation provides no tal-

isman indicating the distinction between de jure and de facto segregation. Colum-
bus Bd. of Educ. v. Penick, 443 U.S. 449, 457 n.5 (1979). As early as Ex parte Vir-
ginia, 100 U.S. 339, 347 (1880), it was said that “no agency of the State, or of the
officers or agents by whom its powers are exerted, shall deny to any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. Whoever, by virtue of public posi-
tion under a State government, . . . denies or takes away the equal protection of
the laws . . . violates the constitutional inhibition: and as he acts in the name and
for the State, and is clothed with the State’s power, his act is that of the State.” The
significance of a statute is that it simplifies in the extreme a complainant’s proof.
     1628 418 U.S. 717 (1974).
     1629 418 U.S. at 745.
     1630 418 U.S. at 741–42.
