tioned in that [Fourteenth] amendment means not only the right of
the citizen to be free from the mere physical restraint of his per-
son, as by incarceration, but the term is deemed to embrace the
right of the citizen to be free in the enjoyment of all his faculties;
to be free to use them in all lawful ways; to live and work where
he will; to earn his livelihood by any lawful calling; to pursue any
livelihood or avocation, and for that purpose to enter into all con-
tracts which may be proper, necessary and essential to his carrying
out to a successful conclusion the purposes above mentioned.” 88
    The Court, however, did sustain some labor regulations by ac-
knowledging that freedom of contract was “a qualified and not an
absolute right. . . . Liberty implies the absence of arbitrary re-
straint, not immunity from reasonable regulations and prohibitions
imposed in the interests of the community. . . . In dealing with the
relation of the employer and employed, the legislature has necessar-
ily a wide field of discretion in order that there may be suitable
protection of health and safety, and that peace and good order may
be promoted through regulations designed to insure wholesome con-
ditions of work and freedom from oppression.” 89
     Still, the Court was committed to the principle that freedom of
contract is the general rule and that legislative authority to abridge
it could be justified only by exceptional circumstances. To serve this
end, the Court intermittently employed the rule of judicial notice
in a manner best exemplified by a comparison of the early cases of
Holden v. Hardy 90 and Lochner v. New York.91 In Holden v. Hardy,92
the Court, relying on the principle of presumed validity, allowed the
burden of proof to remain with those attacking a Utah act limiting
the period of labor in mines to eight hours per day. Recognizing the
fact that labor below the surface of the earth was attended by risk
to person and to health and for these reasons had long been the
subject of state intervention, the Court registered its willingness to
sustain a law that the state legislature had adjudged “necessary
for the preservation of health of employees,” and for which there
were “reasonable grounds for believing that . . . [it was] supported
by the facts.”
    Seven years later, however, a radically altered Court was pre-
disposed in favor of the doctrine of judicial notice. In Lochner v.

    88 165 U.S. at 589.
    89 Chicago, B. & Q. R.R. v. McGuire, 219 U.S. 549, 567, 570 (1911). See also
Wolff Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U.S. 522, 534 (1923).
    90 169 U.S. 366 (1898).
    91 198 U.S. 45 (1905).
    92 169 U.S. 366, 398 (1898).
