corder would preserve the interest.336 The statute provided no no-
tice to owners of interests, however, save for its own publication;
nor did it require surface owners to notify owners of mineral inter-
ests that the interests were about to expire.337 By a narrow mar-
gin, the Court sustained the statute, holding that the state’s inter-
est in encouraging production, securing timely notices of property
ownership, and settling property titles provided a basis for enact-
ment, and finding that due process did not require any actual no-
tice to holders of unused mineral interests.338 The state “may im-
pose on an owner of a mineral interest the burden of using that
interest or filing a current statement of interests” and it may simi-
larly “impose on him the lesser burden of keeping informed of the
use or nonuse of his own property.” 339

Health, Safety, and Morals
     Health.—Even under the narrowest concept of the police power
as limited by substantive due process, it was generally conceded that
states could exercise the power to protect the public health, safety,
and morals.340 For instance, an ordinance for incineration of gar-
bage and refuse at a designated place as a means of protecting pub-
lic health is not a taking of private property without just compen-
sation, even though such garbage and refuse may have some elements
of value for certain purposes.341 Or, compelling property owners to
connect with a publicly maintained system of sewers and enforcing
that duty by criminal penalties does not violate the Due Process
Clause.342
     There are few constitutional restrictions on the extensive state
regulations on the production and distribution of food and drugs.343
     336 With respect to interests existing at the time of enactment, the statute pro-

vided a two-year grace period in which owners of mineral interests that were then
unused and subject to lapse could preserve those interests by filing a claim in the
recorder’s office.
     337 The act provided a grace period and specified several actions which were suf-

ficient to avoid extinguishment. With respect to interests existing at the time of en-
actment, the statute provided a two-year grace period in which owners of mineral
interests that were then unused and subject to lapse could preserve those interests
by filing a claim in the recorder’s office.
     338 Generally, property owners are charged with maintaining knowledge of the

legal conditions of property ownership.
     339 454 U.S. at 538. The four dissenters thought that some specific notice was

required for persons holding before enactment. Id. at 540.
     340 See, e.g., Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U.S. 623, 661 (1887), and the discussion,

supra, under “The Development of Substantive Due Process.”
     341 California Reduction Co. v. Sanitary Works, 199 U.S. 306 (1905).
     342 Hutchinson v. City of Valdosta, 227 U.S. 303 (1913).
     343 “The power of the State to . . . prevent the production within its borders of

impure foods, unfit for use, and such articles as would spread disease and pesti-
lence, is well established.” Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U.S. 52, 59–60 (1915).
