is free to determine, without regulation by the State, that, in his
medical judgment, the patient’s pregnancy should be termi-
nated.” 572 In the intermediate trimester, the danger to the woman
increases and the state may therefore regulate the abortion proce-
dure “to the extent that the regulation reasonably relates to the
preservation and protection of maternal health,” but the fetus is still
not able to survive outside the womb, and consequently the actual
decision to have an abortion cannot be otherwise impeded.573 “With
respect to the State’s important and legitimate interest in potential
life, the ‘compelling’ point is at viability. This is so because the fe-
tus then presumably has the capability of meaningful life outside
the mother’s womb. State regulation protective of fetal life after vi-
ability thus has both logical and biological justifications. If the State
is interested in protecting fetal life after viability, it may go so far
as to proscribe abortion during that period, except when it is neces-
sary to preserve the life or health of the mother.” 574
    Thus, the Court concluded that “(a) for the stage prior to ap-
proximately the end of the first trimester, the abortion decision and
its effectuation must be left to the medical judgment of the preg-
nant woman’s attending physician; (b) for the stage subsequent to
approximately the end of the first trimester, the State, in promot-
ing its interest in the health of the mother, may, if it chooses, regu-
late the abortion procedure in ways that are reasonably related to
maternal health; (c) for the stage subsequent to viability, the State
in promoting its interest in the potentiality of human life may, if it
chooses, regulate, and even proscribe, abortion except where it is
necessary, in appropriate medical judgment, for the preservation of
the life or health of the mother.”
    Further, in a companion case, the Court struck down three pro-
cedural provisions relating to a law that did allow some abor-
tions.575 These regulations required that an abortion be performed
in a hospital accredited by a private accrediting organization, that
the operation be approved by the hospital staff abortion committee,
and that the performing physician’s judgment be confirmed by the
independent examination of the patient by two other licensed phy-
sicians. These provisions were held not to be justified by the state’s
interest in maternal health because they were not reasonably re-

    572  410 U.S. at 163.
    573  410 U.S. at 163.
     574 410 U.S. at 163–64. A fetus becomes “viable” when it is “potentially able to

live outside the mother’s womb, albeit with artificial aid. Viability is usually placed
at about seven months (28 weeks) but may occur earlier, even at 24 weeks.” Id. at
160 (footnotes omitted).
     575 Doe v. Bolton, 410 U.S. 179 (1973).
