ally “deliver[ed] . . . [so that] in the case of a head-first presenta-
tion, the entire fetal head is outside the body of the mother, or, in
the case of breech presentation, any part of the fetal trunk past
the navel is outside the body of the mother.” 615 The Court distin-
guished this federal statute from the Nebraska statute that it had
struck down in Stenberg, holding that the federal statute applied
only to the intentional performance of the less-common “intact dila-
tion and excavation.” The Court found that the federal statute was
not unconstitutionally vague because it provided “anatomical land-
marks” that provided doctors with a reasonable opportunity to know
what conduct it prohibited.616 Further, the scienter requirement (that
delivery of the fetus to these landmarks before fetal demise be in-
tentional) was found to alleviate vagueness concerns.617
     In a departure from the reasoning of Stenberg, the Court held
that the failure of the federal statute to provide a health excep-
tion 618 was justified by congressional findings that such a proce-
dure was not necessary to protect the health of a mother. Noting
that the Court has given “state and federal legislatures wide discre-
tion to pass legislation in areas where there is medical and scien-
tific uncertainty,” the Court held that, at least in the context of a
facial challenge, such an exception was not needed where “[t]here
is documented medical disagreement whether the Act’s prohibition
would ever impose significant health risks on women.” 619 The Court
did, however, leave open the possibility that as-applied challenges
could still be made in individual cases.620
     As in Stenberg, the prohibition considered in Gonzales ex-
tended to the performance of an abortion before the fetus was vi-
able, thus directly raising the question of whether the statute im-
posed an “undue burden” on the right to obtain an abortion. Unlike
the statute in Stenberg, however, the ban in Gonzales was limited
to the far less common “intact dilation and excavation” procedure,
and consequently did not impose the same burden as the Nebraska
     615 18 U.S.C. § 1531(b)(1)(A). The penalty imposed on a physician for a violation

of the statute was fines and/or imprisonment for not more than 2 years. In addition,
the physician could be subject to a civil suit by the father (or maternal grandpar-
ents, where the mother is a minor) for money damages for all injuries, psychological
and physical, occasioned by the violation of this section, and statutory damages equal
to three times the cost of the partial-birth abortion.
     616 550 U.S. at 150.
     617 550 U.S. at 148–150.
     618 As in Stenberg, the statute provided an exception for threats to the life of a

woman.
     619 550 U.S. at 162. Arguably, this holding overruled Stenberg insofar as Stenberg

had allowed a facial challenge to the failure of Nebraska to provide a health excep-
tion to its prohibition on intact dilation and excavation abortions. 530 U.S. at 929–
38.
     620 550 U.S. at 168.
