up my mind. But I do not conceive that to be my duty, because I
strongly believe that my agreement or disagreement has nothing
to do with the right of a majority to embody their opinions in law.
It is settled by various decisions of this court that state constitu-
tions and state laws may regulate life in many ways which we as
legislators might think as injudicious or if you like as tyrannical as
this, and which equally with this interfere with the liberty to con-
tract. . . . The Fourteenth Amendment does not enact Mr. Herbert
Spencer’s Social Statics. . . . But a constitution is not intended to
embody a particular economic theory, whether of paternalism and
the organic relation of the citizen to the State or of laissez faire. It
is made for people of fundamentally differing views, and the acci-
dent of our finding certain opinions natural and familiar or novel
and even shocking ought not to conclude our judgment upon the
question whether statutes embodying them conflict with the Consti-
tution. . . . I think that the word liberty in the Fourteenth Amend-
ment is perverted when it is held to prevent the natural outcome
of a dominant opinion, unless it can be said that a rational and
fair man necessarily would admit that the statute proposed would
infringe fundamental principles as they have been understood by
the traditions of our people and our law.” 96
    Justice Holmes did not reject the basic concept of substantive
due process, but rather the Court’s presumption against economic
regulation.97 Thus, Justice Holmes whether consciously or not, was
prepared to support, along with his opponents in the majority, a
“perpetual censorship” over state legislation. The basic distinction,
therefore, between the positions taken by Justice Peckham for the
majority and Justice Holmes, for what was then the minority, was
the use of the doctrine of judicial notice by the former and the doc-
trine of presumed validity by the latter.
    Holmes’ dissent soon bore fruit in Muller v. Oregon 98 and Bun-
ting v. Oregon,99 which allowed, respectively, regulation of hours worked
by women and by men in certain industries. The doctrinal ap-
proach employed was to find that the regulation was supported by
evidence despite the shift in the burden of proof entailed by appli-
cation of the principle of judicial notice. Thus, counsel defending
the constitutionality of social legislation developed the practice of

    96 198 U.S. at 75–76.
    97 Thus, Justice Holmes’ criticism of his colleagues was unfair, as even a “ratio-
nal and fair man” would be guided by some preferences or “economic predilections.”
    98 208 U.S. 412 (1908).
    99 243 U.S. 426 (1917).
