United States v. Kras,2048 the Court held that the imposition of fil-
ing fees that blocked the access of an indigent to a discharge of his
debts in bankruptcy denied the indigent neither due process nor
equal protection. The marital relationship in Boddie was a funda-
mental interest, the Court said, and upon its dissolution depended
associational interests of great importance; however, an interest in
the elimination of the burden of debt and in obtaining a new start
in life, while important, did not rise to the same constitutional level
as marriage. Moreover, a debtor’s access to relief in bankruptcy had
not been monopolized by the government to the same degree as dis-
solution of a marriage; one may, “in theory, and often in actuality,”
manage to resolve the issue of his debts by some other means, such
as negotiation. While the alternatives in many cases, such as Kras,
seem barely likely of successful pursuit, the Court seemed to be sug-
gesting that absolute preclusion was a necessary element before a
right of access could be considered.2049
    Subsequently, on the initial appeal papers and without hearing
oral argument, the Court summarily upheld the application to
indigents of filing fees that in effect precluded them from appeal-
ing decisions of a state administrative agency reducing or terminat-
ing public assistance.2050
     The continuing vitality of Griffin v. Illinois, however, is seen in
M.L.B. v. S.L.J.,2051 where the Court considered whether a state
seeking to terminate the parental rights of an indigent must pay
for the preparation of the transcript required for pursuing an ap-
peal. Unlike in Boddie, the state, Mississippi, had afforded the plain-
tiff a trial on the merits, and thus the “monopolization” of the av-
    2048  409 U.S. 434 (1973).
    2049  409 U.S. at 443–46. The equal protection argument was rejected by using
the traditional standard of review, bankruptcy legislation being placed in the area
of economics and social welfare, and the use of fees to create a self-sustaining bank-
ruptcy system being considered to be a rational basis. Dissenting, Justice Stewart
argued that Boddie required a different result, denied that absolute preclusion of
alternatives was necessary, and would have evaluated the importance of an interest
asserted rather than providing that it need be fundamental. Id. at 451. Justice Mar-
shall’s dissent was premised on an asserted constitutional right to be heard in court,
a constitutional right of access regardless of the interest involved. Id. at 458. Jus-
tices Douglas and Brennan concurred in Justice Stewart’s dissent, as indeed did Jus-
tice Marshall.
     2050 Ortwein v. Schwab, 410 U.S. 656 (1973). The division was the same 5-to-4

that prevailed in Kras. See also Lindsey v. Normet, 405 U.S. 56 (1972). But cases
involving the Boddie principle do continue to arise. Little v. Streater, 452 U.S. 1
(1981) (in paternity suit that State required complainant to initiate, indigent defen-
dant entitled to have State pay for essential blood grouping test); Lassiter v. Depart-
ment of Social Services, 452 U.S. 18 (1981) (recognizing general right of indigent
parent to appointed counsel when state seeks to terminate parental status, but us-
ing balancing test to determine that right was not present in this case).
     2051 519 U.S. 102 (1996).
