other illegitimate children eligible only if they were born prior to
the onset of disability and if they were dependent upon the parent
prior to the onset of disability. The Court deemed the purpose of
the benefits to be to aid all children and rejected the argument that
the burden on illegitimates was necessary to avoid fraud.1856
    However, in a second case, an almost identical program, provid-
ing benefits to children of a deceased insured, was sustained be-
cause its purpose was found to be to give benefits to children who
were dependent upon the deceased parent and the classifications
served that purpose. Presumed dependent were all legitimate chil-
dren as well as those illegitimate children who were able to inherit
under state intestacy laws, who were illegitimate only because of
the technical invalidity of the parent’s marriage, who had been ac-
knowledged in writing by the father, who had been declared to be
the father’s by a court decision, or who had been held entitled to
the father’s support by a court. Illegitimate children not covered by
these presumptions had to establish that they were living with the
insured parent or were being supported by him when the parent
died. According to the Court, all the presumptions constituted an
administrative convenience, which was a permissible device be-
cause those illegitimate children who were entitled to benefits be-
cause they were in fact dependent would receive benefits upon proof
of the fact and it was irrelevant that other children not dependent
in fact also received benefits.1857

Fundamental Interests: The Political Process
    “The States have long been held to have broad powers to deter-
mine the conditions under which the right of suffrage may be exer-
cised . . . , absent of course the discrimination which the Constitu-
     1856 Jiminez v. Weinberger, 417 U.S. 628 (1974). But cf. Califano v. Boles, 443

U.S. 282 (1979). See also New Jersey Welfare Rights Org. v. Cahill, 411 U.S. 619
(1973) (limiting welfare assistance to households in which parents are ceremonially
married and the children are legitimate or adopted denied illegitimate children equal
protection); Richardson v. Davis, 409 U.S. 1069 (1972), aff ’g 342 F. Supp. 588 (D.
Conn.) (3-judge court), and Richardson v. Griffin, 409 U.S. 1069 (1972), aff ’g 346 F.
Supp. 1226 (D. Md.) (3-judge court) (Social Security provision entitling illegitimate
children to monthly benefit payments only to extent that payments to widow and
legitimate children do not exhaust benefits allowed by law denies illegitimates equal
protection).
     1857 Mathews v. Lucas, 427 U.S. 495 (1976). It can be seen that the only differ-

ence between Jiminez and Lucas is that in the former the Court viewed the benefits
as owing to all children and not just to dependents, while in the latter the benefits
were viewed as owing only to dependents and not to all children. But it is not clear
that in either case the purpose determined to underlie the provision of benefits was
compelled by either statutory language or legislative history. For a particularly good
illustration of the difference such a determination of purpose can make and the way
the majority and dissent in a 5-to-4 decision read the purpose differently, see Califano
v. Boles, 443 U.S. 282 (1979).
