pact severely upon some businesses and quite favorably upon oth-
ers may be saved through stringent deference to legislative judg-
ment.1533 So deferential is the classification that it denies the
challenging party any right to offer evidence to seek to prove that
the legislature is wrong in its conclusion that its classification will
serve the purpose it has in mind, so long as the question is at least
debatable and the legislature “could rationally have decided” that
its classification would foster its goal.1534 The Court has con-
demned a variety of statutory classifications as failing the rational
basis test, although some of the cases are of doubtful vitality today

in the regulation of their local economies under their police powers, and rational
distinctions may be made with substantially less than mathematical exactitude. Leg-
islatures may implement their program step-by-step . . . in such economic areas,
adopting regulations that only partially ameliorate a perceived evil and deferring
complete elimination of the evil to future regulations. . . . In short, the judiciary
may not sit as a superlegislature to judge the wisdom or undesirability of legisla-
tive policy determinations made in areas that neither affect fundamental rights nor
proceed along suspect lines . . . ; in the local economic sphere, it is only the invidi-
ous discrimination, the wholly arbitrary act, which cannot stand consistently with
the Fourteenth Amendment.” Id. at 303–04.
     1533 The “grandfather” clause upheld in Dukes preserved the operations of two

concerns that had operated in the Quarter for 20 years. The classification was sus-
tained on the basis of (1) the City Council proceeding step-by-step and eliminating
vendors of more recent vintage, (2) the Council deciding that newer businesses were
less likely to have built up substantial reliance interests in continued operation in
the Quarter, and (3) the Council believing that both “grandfathered” vending inter-
ests had themselves become part of the distinctive character and charm of the Quar-
ter. 427 U.S. at 305–06. See also Friedman v. Rogers, 440 U.S. 1, 17–18 (1979); United
States v. Maryland Savings-Share Ins. Corp., 400 U.S. 4, 6 (1970).
     1534 Minnesota v. Clover Leaf Creamery Co., 449 U.S. 456, 461–70 (1981). The

quoted phrase is at 466 (emphasis by Court). Purporting to promote the purposes of
resource conservation, easing solid waste disposal problems, and conserving energy,
the legislature had banned plastic nonreturnable milk cartons but permitted all other
nonplastic nonreturnable containers, such as paperboard cartons. The state court
had thought the distinction irrational, but the Supreme Court thought the legisla-
ture could have believed a basis for the distinction existed. Courts will receive evi-
dence that a distinction is wholly irrational. United States v. Carolene Products Co.,
304 U.S. 144, 153–54 (1938).
     Classifications under police regulations have been held valid as follows:
     Advertising: discrimination between billboard and newspaper advertising of ciga-
rettes, Packer Corp. v. Utah, 285 U.S. 105 (1932); prohibition of advertising signs
on motor vehicles, except when used in the usual business of the owner and not
used mainly for advertising, Fifth Ave. Coach Co. v. New York, 221 U.S. 467 (1911);
prohibition of advertising on motor vehicles except notices or advertising of prod-
ucts of the owner, Railway Express Agency v. New York, 336 U.S. 106 (1949); prohi-
bition against sale of articles on which there is a representation of the flag for ad-
vertising purposes, except newspapers, periodicals and books, Halter v. Nebraska,
205 U.S. 34 (1907).
     Amusement: prohibition against keeping billiard halls for hire, except in case of
hotels having twenty-five or more rooms for use of regular guests. Murphy v. Califor-
nia, 225 U.S. 623 (1912).
     Attorneys: Kansas law and court regulations requiring resident of Kansas, li-
censed to practice in Kansas and Missouri and maintaining law offices in both States,
but who practices regularly in Missouri, to obtain local associate counsel as a condi-
