tially related to the achievement of the important and congressio-
nally articulated goal of remedying the present effects of past dis-
crimination.” 1730
     Taken together, the opinions established that, although Con-
gress had the power to make the findings that will establish the
necessity to use racial classifications in an affirmative way, these
findings need not be extensive nor express and may be collected in
many ways.1731 Moreover, although the opinions emphasized the lim-
ited duration and magnitude of the set-aside program, they ap-
peared to attach no constitutional significance to these limitations,
thus leaving open the way for programs of a scope sufficient to rem-
edy all the identified effects of past discrimination.1732 But the most
important part of these opinions rested in the clear sustaining of
race classifications as permissible in remedies and in the approv-
ing of some forms of racial quotas. The Court rejected arguments
that minority beneficiaries of such programs are stigmatized, that
burdens are placed on innocent third parties, and that the pro-
gram is overinclusive, so as to benefit some minority members who
had suffered no discrimination.1733
     Despite these developments, the Court remained divided in its
response to constitutional challenges to affirmative action plans.1734
As a general matter, authority to apply racial classifications was
found to be at its greatest when Congress was acting pursuant to
section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment or other of its remedial pow-
ers, or when a court is acting to remedy proven discrimination. But
    1730  448 U.S. at 517.
    1731  Whether federal agencies or state legislatures and state agencies have the
same breadth and leeway to make findings and formulate remedies was left un-
settled, but that they have some such power seems evident. 448 U.S. at 473–80.
The program was an exercise of Congress’s spending power, but the constitutional
objections raised had not been previously resolved in that context. The plurality there-
fore turned to Congress’s regulatory powers, which in this case undergirded the spend-
ing power, and found the power to lie in the Commerce Clause with respect to pri-
vate contractors and in section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment with respect to state
agencies. The Marshall plurality appeared to attach no significance in this regard to
the fact that Congress was the acting party.
     1732 448 U.S. at 484–85, 489 (Chief Justice Burger), 513–15 (Justice Powell).
     1733 448 U.S. at 484–89 (Chief Justice Burger), 514–515 (Justice Powell), 520–

521 (Justice Marshall).
     1734 Guidance on constitutional issues is not necessarily afforded by cases aris-

ing under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, the Court having asserted that “the statu-
tory prohibition with which the employer must contend was not intended to extend
as far as that of the Constitution,” and that “voluntary employer action can play a
crucial role in furthering Title VII’s purpose of eliminating the effects of discrimina-
tion in the workplace.” Johnson v. Transportation Agency, 480 U.S. 616, 628 n.6,
630 (1987) (upholding a local governmental agency’s voluntary affirmative action plan
predicated upon underrepresentation of women rather than upon past discrimina-
tory practices by that agency) (emphasis in original). The constitutionality of the
agency’s plan was not challenged. See id. at 620 n.2.
