of dealings) demonstrate a deliberate reaching out to establish con-
tacts with the franchisor in the franchisor’s home state.896
     The Court has continued to wrestle over when a state may ad-
judicate a products liability claim for an injury occurring within it,
at times finding the defendant’s contacts with the place of injury to
be too attenuated to support its having to mount a defense there.
In World-Wide Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson,897 the Court applied
its “minimum contacts” test to preclude the assertion of jurisdic-
tion over two foreign corporations that did no business in the fo-
rum state. Plaintiffs had sustained personal injuries in Oklahoma
in an accident involving an alleged defect in their automobile. The
car had been purchased the previous year in New York, the plain-
tiffs were New York residents at time of purchase, and the accident
had occurred while they were driving through Oklahoma on their
way to a new residence in Arizona. Defendants were the automo-
bile retailer and its wholesaler, both New York corporations that
did no business in Oklahoma. The Court found no circumstances
justifying assertion by Oklahoma courts of jurisdiction over defen-
dants. The Court found that the defendants (1) carried on no activ-
ity in Oklahoma, (2) closed no sales and performed no services there,
(3) availed themselves of none of the benefits of the state’s laws,
(4) solicited no business there either through salespersons or through
advertising reasonably calculated to reach the state, and (5) sold
no cars to Oklahoma residents or indirectly served or sought to serve
the Oklahoma market. Although it might have been foreseeable that
the automobile would travel to Oklahoma, foreseeability was held
to be relevant only insofar as “the defendant’s conduct and connec-
tion with the forum State are such that he should reasonably an-
ticipate being haled into court there.” 898 The Court in World-Wide
Volkswagen Corp. contrasted the facts of the case with the instance
of a corporation “deliver[ing] its products into the stream of com-
merce with the expectation that they will be purchased by consum-
ers in the forum State.” 899




     896 Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz, 471 U.S. 462 (1985). But cf. Helicopteros

Nacionales de Colombia v. Hall, 466 U.S. 408 (1984) (purchases and training within
state, both unrelated to cause of action, are insufficient to justify general in personam
jurisdiction).
     897 444 U.S. 286 (1980).
     898 444 U.S. at 297.
     899 444 U.S. at 298.
