the state action even when the governing legislation appears neu-
tral on its face,” but this is a rare case.1447 In the absence of such a
stark pattern, a court will look to such factors as the “historical
background of the decision,” especially if there is a series of official
discriminatory actions. The specific sequence of events may shed
light on purpose, as would departures from normal procedural se-
quences or from substantive considerations usually relied on in the
past to guide official actions. Contemporary statements of decisionmak-
ers may be examined, and “[i]n some extraordinary instances the
members might be called to the stand at trial to testify concerning
the purpose of the official action, although even then such testi-
mony frequently will be barred by privilege.” 1448 In most circum-
stances, a court is to look to the totality of the circumstances to
ascertain intent.
     Strengthening of the intent standard was evidenced in a deci-
sion sustaining against a sex discrimination challenge a state law
giving an absolute preference in civil service hiring to veterans. Vet-
erans who obtain at least a passing grade on the relevant examina-
tion may exercise the preference at any time and as many times as
they wish and are ranked ahead of all non-veterans, no matter what
their score. The lower court observed that the statutory and admin-
istrative exclusion of women from the armed forces until the recent
past meant that virtually all women were excluded from state civil
service positions and held that results so clearly foreseen could not
be said to be unintended. Reversing, the Supreme Court found that
the veterans preference law was not overtly or covertly gender-
based; too many men are non-veterans to permit such a conclusion,
and some women are veterans. That the preference implicitly incor-
porated past official discrimination against women was held not to
detract from the fact that rewarding veterans for their service to
their country was a legitimate public purpose. Acknowledging that
the consequences of the preference were foreseeable, the Court pro-
nounced this fact insufficient to make the requisite showing of in-
tent. “ ‘Discriminatory purpose’ . . . implies more than intent as vo-
lition or intent as awareness of consequences. . . . It implies that
the decisionmaker . . . selected or reaffirmed a particular course of
action at least in part ‘because of,’ not merely ‘in spite of,’ its ad-
verse effects upon an identifiable group.” 1449

    1447  Arlington Heights, 429 U.S. at 266.
    1448  429 U.S. 267–68.
     1449 Massachusetts Personnel Adm’r v. Feeney, 442 U.S. 256, 279 (1979). This

case clearly established the application of Davis and Arlington Heights to all nonra-
cial classifications attacked under the Equal Protection Clause. But compare Colum-
bus Bd. of Educ. v. Penick, 443 U.S. 449 (1979), and Dayton Bd. of Educ. v. Brink-
