     Despite the requirement that states prove each element of a crimi-
nal offense, criminal trials generally proceed with a presumption
that the defendant is sane, and a defendant may be limited in the
evidence that he may present to challenge this presumption. In Clark
v. Arizona,1119 the Court considered a rule adopted by the Supreme
Court of Arizona that prohibited the use of expert testimony regard-
ing mental disease or mental capacity to show lack of mens rea,
ruling that the use of such evidence could be limited to an insanity
defense. In Clark, the Court weighed competing interests to hold
that such evidence could be “channeled” to the issue of insanity due
to the controversial character of some categories of mental disease,
the potential of mental-disease evidence to mislead, and the dan-
ger of according greater certainty to such evidence than experts claim
for it.1120
    Another important distinction that can substantially affect a pros-
ecutor’s burden is whether a fact to be established is an element of
a crime or instead is a sentencing factor. Although a criminal con-
viction is generally established by a jury using the “beyond a rea-
sonable doubt” standard, sentencing factors are generally evalu-
ated by a judge using few evidentiary rules and under the more
lenient “preponderance of the evidence” standard. The Court has
taken a formalistic approach to this issue, allowing states to desig-
nate essentially which facts fall under which of these two catego-
ries. For instance, the Court has held that whether a defendant “vis-
ibly possessed a gun” during a crime may be designated by a state
as a sentencing factor, and determined by a judge based on the pre-
ponderance of evidence.1121
     Although the Court has generally deferred to the legislature’s
characterizations in this area, it limited this principle in Apprendi
v. New Jersey. In Apprendi the Court held that a sentencing factor
cannot be used to increase the maximum penalty imposed for the
underlying crime.1122 This led, in turn, to the Court’s overruling con-
flicting prior case law that had held constitutional the use of aggra-
    1119 548 U.S. 735 (2006).
    1120 548 U.S. at 770, 774.
    1121 McMillan v. Pennsylvania, 477 U.S. 79 (1986). It should be noted that these

type of cases may also implicate the Sixth Amendment, as the right to a jury ex-
tends to all facts establishing the elements of a crime, while sentencing factors may
be evaluated by a judge. See discussion in “Criminal Proceedings to Which the Guar-
antee Applies,” supra.
    1122 530 U.S. 466, 490 (2000) (interpreting New Jersey’s “hate crime” law). It

should be noted that, prior to its decision in Apprendi, the Court had held that sen-
tencing factors determinative of minimum sentences could be decided by a judge.
McMillan v. Pennsylvania, 477 U.S. 79 (1986). Although the vitality of McMillan
was put in doubt by Apprendi, McMillan was subsequently reaffirmed in Harris v.
United States, 536 U.S. 545 (2002).
