prohibition against a deprivation of property without due process
“has been in the Constitution since the adoption of the fifth amend-
ment, as a restraint upon the Federal power. It is also to be found
in some forms of expression in the constitutions of nearly all the
States, as a restraint upon the power of the States. . . . We are not
without judicial interpretation, therefore, both State and National,
of the meaning of this clause. And it is sufficient to say that under
no construction of that provision that we have ever seen, or any
that we deem admissible, can the restraint imposed by the State of
Louisiana upon the exercise of their trade by the butchers of New
Orleans be held to be a deprivation of property within the meaning
of that provision.” 65
     Four years later, in Munn v. Illinois,66 the Court reviewed the
regulation of rates charged for the transportation and warehousing
of grain, and again refused to interpret the due process clause as
invalidating substantive state legislation. Rejecting contentions that
such legislation effected an unconstitutional deprivation of prop-
erty by preventing the owner from earning a reasonable compensa-
tion for its use and by transferring an interest in a private enter-
prise to the public, Chief Justice Waite emphasized that “the great
office of statutes is to remedy defects in the common law as they
are developed. . . . We know that this power [of rate regulation] may
be abused; but that is no argument against its existence. For pro-
tection against abuses by legislatures the people must resort to the
polls, not to the courts.”
     In Davidson v. New Orleans,67 Justice Miller also counseled against
a departure from these conventional applications of due process, al-
though he acknowledged the difficulty of arriving at a precise, all-
inclusive definition of the clause. “It is not a little remarkable,” he
observed, “that while this provision has been in the Constitution of
the United States, as a restraint upon the authority of the Federal
government, for nearly a century, and while, during all that time,
the manner in which the powers of that government have been ex-
ercised has been watched with jealousy, and subjected to the most
rigid criticism in all its branches, this special limitation upon its
powers has rarely been invoked in the judicial forum or the more
enlarged theatre of public discussion. But while it has been part of
the Constitution, as a restraint upon the power of the States, only
a very few years, the docket of this court is crowded with cases in
which we are asked to hold that State courts and State legisla-
tures have deprived their own citizens of life, liberty, or property
   65 83 U.S. (16 Wall.) at 80–81.
   66 94 U.S. 113, 134 (1877).
   67 96 U.S. 97, 103–04 (1878).
