to be based upon an overbroad generalization about the role of women
as a class in society, and the administrative convenience served could
not justify it.1813
     Even when the negative “stereotype” that is evoked is that of a
stereotypical male, the Court has evaluated this as potential gen-
der discrimination. In J. E. B. v. Alabama ex rel. T. B.,1814 the Court
addressed a paternity suit where men had been intentionally ex-
cluded from a jury through peremptory strikes. The Court rejected
as unfounded the argument that men, as a class, would be more
sympathetic to the defendant, the putative father. The Court also
determined that gender-based exclusion of jurors would undermine
the litigants’ interest by tainting the proceedings, and in addition
would harm the wrongfully excluded juror.
     Assumptions about the relative positions of the sexes, however,
are not without some basis in fact, and sex may sometimes be a
reliable proxy for the characteristic, such as need, with which it is
the legislature’s actual intention to deal. But heightened scrutiny
requires evidence of the existence of the distinguishing fact and its
close correspondence with the condition for which sex stands as proxy.
Thus, in the case that first expressly announced the intermediate
scrutiny standard, the Court struck down a state statute that pro-
hibited the sale of “non-intoxicating” 3.2 beer to males under 21
and to females under 18.1815 Accepting the argument that traffic safety
was an important governmental objective, the Court emphasized that
sex is an often inaccurate proxy for other, more germane classifica-
tions. Taking the statistics offered by the state as of value, while
cautioning that statistical analysis is a “dubious” business that is
in tension with the “normative philosophy that underlies the Equal
Protection Clause,” the Court thought the correlation between males
and females arrested for drunk driving showed an unduly tenuous
fit to allow the use of sex as a distinction.1816
     Invalidating an Alabama law imposing alimony obligations upon
males but not upon females, the Court in Orr v. Orr acknowledged
that assisting needy spouses was a legitimate and important gov-
ernmental objective. Ordinarily, therefore, the Court would have con-
sidered whether sex was a sufficiently accurate proxy for depen-
dency, and, if it found that it was, then it would have concluded
    1813 Taylor v. Louisiana, 419 U.S. 522 (1975). The precise basis of the decision

was the Sixth Amendment right to a representative cross section of the community,
but the Court dealt with and disapproved the reasoning in Hoyt v. Florida, 368 U.S.
57 (1961), in which a similar jury selection process was upheld against due process
and equal protection challenge.
    1814 511 U.S. 127 (1994).
    1815 Craig v. Boren, 429 U.S. 190 (1976).
    1816 429 U.S. at 198, 199–200, 201–04.
