nary review to programs that expressly used race as the primary
consideration for awarding a public benefit.1720
     In United Jewish Organizations v. Carey,1721 New York State
had drawn a plan that consciously used racial criteria to create dis-
tricts with nonwhite populations in order to comply with the Vot-
ing Rights Act and to obtain the United States Attorney General’s
approval for a redistricting law. These districts were drawn large
enough to permit the election of nonwhite candidates in spite of the
lower voting turnout of nonwhites. In the process a Hasidic Jewish
community previously located entirely within one senate and one
assembly district was divided between two senate and two assem-
bly districts, and members of that community sued, alleging that
the value of their votes had been diluted solely for the purpose of
achieving a racial quota. The Supreme Court approved the district-
ing, although the fragmented majority of seven concurred in no ma-
jority opinion.
    Justice White, delivering the judgment of the Court, based the
result on alternative grounds. First, because the redistricting took
place pursuant to the administration of the Voting Rights Act, Jus-
tice White argued that compliance with the Act necessarily re-
quired states to be race conscious in the drawing of lines so as not
to dilute minority voting strength. Justice White noted that this re-
quirement was not dependent upon a showing of past discrimina-
tion and that the states retained discretion to determine just what
strength minority voters needed in electoral districts in order to as-
sure their proportional representation. Moreover, the creation of the
certain number of districts in which minorities were in the major-
ity was reasonable under the circumstances.1722
    Second, Justice White wrote that, irrespective of what the Vot-
ing Rights Act may have required, what the state had done did not
violate either the Fourteenth or the Fifteenth Amendment. This was
so because the plan, even though it used race in a purposeful man-
ner, represented no racial slur or stigma with respect to whites or
any other race; the plan did not operate to minimize or unfairly
cancel out white voting strength, because as a class whites would

    1720 The constitutionality of a law school admissions program in which minority

applicants were preferred for a number of positions was before the Court in DeFunis
v. Odegaard, 416 U.S. 312 (1974), but the Court did not reach the merits.
    1721 430 U.S. 144 (1977). Chief Justice Burger dissented, id. at 180, and Justice

Marshall did not participate.
    1722 430 U.S. at 155–65. Joining this part of the opinion were Justices Brennan,

Blackmun, and Stevens.
