    The Justice further noted that “many forms of regulation re-
duce the net return of the enterprise. . . . Most regulations of busi-
ness necessarily impose financial burdens on the enterprise for which
no compensation is paid. Those are part of the costs of our civiliza-
tion. Extreme cases are conjured up where an employer is required
to pay wages for a period that has no relation to the legitimate end.
Those cases can await decision as and when they arise. The pres-
ent law has no such infirmity. It is designed to eliminate any pen-
alty for exercising the right of suffrage and to remove a practical
obstacle to getting out the vote. The public welfare is a broad and
inclusive concept. The moral, social, economic, and physical well-
being of the community is one part of it; the political well-being,
another. The police power which is adequate to fix the financial bur-
den for one is adequate for the other. The judgment of the legisla-
ture that time out for voting should cost the employee nothing may
be a debatable one. It is indeed conceded by the opposition to be
such. But if our recent cases mean anything, they leave debatable
issues as respects business, economic, and social affairs to legisla-
tive decision. We could strike down this law only if we returned to
the philosophy of the Lochner, Coppage, and Adkins cases.” 119
     Workers’ Compensation Laws.—Workers’ compensation laws
also evaded the ravages of Lochner. The Court “repeatedly has up-
held the authority of the States to establish by legislation depar-
tures from the fellow-servant rule and other common-law rules af-
fecting the employer’s liability for personal injuries to the employee.” 120
Accordingly, a state statute that provided an exclusive system to
govern the liabilities of employers for disabling injuries and death
caused by accident in certain hazardous occupations,121 irrespec-
tive of the doctrines of negligence, contributory negligence, assump-
tion of risk, and negligence of fellow-servants, was held not to vio-

    119 342 U.S. at 424–25. See also Dean v. Gadsden Times Pub. Co., 412 U.S. 543

(1973) (sustaining statute providing that employee excused for jury duty should be
entitled to full compensation from employer, less jury service fee).
    120 New York Cent. R.R. v. White, 243 U.S. 188, 200 (1917). “These decisions

have established the propositions that the rules of law concerning the employer’s
responsibility for personal injury or death of an employee arising in the course of
employment are not beyond alteration by legislation in the public interest; that no
person has a vested right entitling him to have these any more than other rules of
law remain unchanged for his benefit; and that, if we exclude arbitrary and unrea-
sonable changes, liability may be imposed upon the employer without fault, and the
rules respecting his responsibility to one employee for the negligence of another and
respecting contributory negligence and assumption of risk are subject to legislative
change.” Arizona Employers’ Liability Cases, 250 U.S. 400, 419–20 (1919).
    121 In determining what occupations may be brought under the designation of

“hazardous,” the legislature may carry the idea to the “vanishing point.” Ward &
Gow v. Krinsky, 259 U.S. 503, 520 (1922).
