v. Price 2099 and United States v. Guest,2100 again in the context of
state action, in which the Court concluded that the statute in-
cluded within its scope rights guaranteed by the Due Process and
Equal Protection Clauses.
     Because the Court found that both Price and Guest concerned
sufficient state action, it did not then have to reach the question of
§ 241‘s constitutionality when applied to private action that inter-
fered with rights not the subject of a general police power. But Jus-
tice Brennan, responding to what he apparently intepreted as lan-
guage in the Court’s opinion construing Congress’s power under § 5
of the Fourteenth Amendment to be limited by the state action re-
quirement, appended a lengthy statement, which a majority of the
Justices joined, arguing that Congress’s power was broader.2101 “Al-
though the Fourteenth Amendment itself . . . ‘speaks to the State
or to those acting under the color of its authority,’ legislation pro-
tecting rights created by that Amendment, such as the right to equal
utilization of state facilities, need not be confined to punishing con-
spiracies in which state officers participate. Rather, § 5 authorizes
Congress to make laws that it concludes are reasonably necessary
to protect a right created by and arising under that Amendment;
and Congress is thus fully empowered to determine that punish-
ment of private conspiracies interfering with the exercise of such a
right is necessary to its full protection.” 2102 The Justice throughout
the opinion refers to “Fourteenth Amendment rights,” by which he
meant rights that, in the words of 18 U.S.C. § 241, are “secured
. . . by the Constitution,” i.e., by the Fourteenth Amendment through
prohibitory words addressed only to governmental officers. Thus, the
Equal Protection Clause commands that all “public facilities owned
or operated by or on behalf of the State,” be available equally to all
persons; that access is a right granted by the Constitution, and § 5
is viewed “as a positive grant of legislative power, authorizing Con-
    2099 383 U.S. 787 (1966) (due process clause).
    2100 383 U.S. 745 (1966) (Equal Protection Clause).
    2101 Justice Brennan’s opinion, 383 U.S. at 774, was joined by Chief Justice War-

ren and Justice Douglas. His statement that “[a] majority of the members of the
Court expresses the view today that § 5 empowers Congress to enact laws punish-
ing all conspiracies to interfere with the exercise of Fourteenth Amendment rights,
whether or not state officers or others acting under the color of state law are impli-
cated in the conspiracy,” id. at 782 (emphasis by the Justice), was based upon the
language of Justice Clark, joined by Justices Black and Fortas, id. at 761, that, be-
cause Justice Brennan had reached the issue, the three Justices were also of the
view “that there now can be no doubt that the specific language of § 5 empowers
the Congress to enact laws punishing all conspiracies—with or without state action—
that interfere with Fourteenth Amendment rights.” Id. at 762. In the opinion of the
Court, Justice Stewart disclaimed any intention of speaking of Congress’s power un-
der § 5. Id. at 755.
    2102 383 U.S. at 782.
