conditioned full direct appellate review—review to which all con-
victed defendants were entitled—on the furnishing of a bill of excep-
tions or report of the trial proceedings, in the preparation of which
the stenographic transcript of the trial was usually essential. Only
indigent defendants sentenced to death were furnished free tran-
scripts; all other convicted defendants had to pay a fee to obtain
them. “In criminal trials,” Justice Black wrote in the plurality opin-
ion, “a State can no more discriminate on account of poverty than
on account of religion, race, or color.” Although the state was not
obligated to provide an appeal at all, when it does so it may not
structure its system “in a way that discriminates against some con-
victed defendants on account of their poverty.” The system’s fault
was that it treated defendants with money differently from defen-
dants without money. “There can be no equal justice where the kind
of trial a man gets depends on the amount of money he has.” 2014
     The principle of Griffin was extended in Douglas v. Califor-
nia,2015 in which the court held to be a denial of due process and
equal protection a system whereby in the first appeal as of right
from a conviction counsel was appointed to represent indigents only
if the appellate court first examined the record and determined that
counsel would be of advantage to the appellant. “There is lacking
that equality demanded by the Fourteenth Amendment where the
rich man, who appeals as of right, enjoys the benefit of counsel’s
examination into the record, research of the law, and marshaling of
arguments on his behalf, while the indigent, already burdened by
a preliminary determination that his case is without merit, is forced
to shift for himself.” 2016
    From the beginning, Justice Harlan opposed reliance on the Equal
Protection Clause at all, arguing that a due process analysis was
the proper criterion to follow. “It is said that a State cannot discrimi-
     2014 351 U.S. at 17, 18, 19. Although Justice Black was not explicit, it seems

clear that the system was found to violate both the Due Process and Equal Protec-
tion Clauses. Justice Frankfurter’s concurrence dealt more expressly with the prem-
ise of the Black opinion. “It does not face actuality to suggest that Illinois affords
every convicted person, financially competent or not, the opportunity to take an ap-
peal, and that it is not Illinois that is responsible for disparity in material circum-
stances. Of course, a State need not equalize economic conditions. . . . But when a
State deems it wise and just that convictions be susceptible to review by an appel-
late court, it cannot by force of its exactions draw a line which precludes convicted
indigent persons, forsooth erroneously convicted, from securing such a review merely
by disabling them from bringing to the notice of an appellate tribunal errors of the
trial court which would upset the conviction were practical opportunity for review
not foreclosed.” Id. at 23.
     2015 372 U.S. 353 (1963). Justice Clark dissented, protesting the Court’s “new

fetish for indigency,” id. at 358, 359, and Justices Harlan and Stewart also dis-
sented. Id. at 360.
     2016 372 U.S. at 357–58.
