states’ role in defining marriage, instead focusing on state approval
of same-sex marriages as conferring a “dignity and status of im-
mense import.” 2009
     The Court in Windsor found that section 3 of DOMA was moti-
vated by improper animus or purpose, concluding that “no legiti-
mate purpose overcomes the purpose and effect to disparage and
injure those whom the State, by its marriage laws, sought to pro-
tect in personhood and dignity.” 2010 “When the State used its his-
toric and essential authority to define the marital relation in this
way, its role and its power in making the decision enhanced the
recognition, dignity, and protection of the class in their own commu-
nity.” DOMA, on the other hand “[sought] to injure the very class
[the state] seeks to protect. By doing so it violates basic due pro-
cess and equal protection principles applicable to the Federal Gov-
ernment.” 2011 The opinion, however, failed to address whether fu-
ture decisions regarding differential treatment based on sexual
orientation would continue to be resolved under traditional ratio-
nal basis scrutiny, or whether a more probing standard would be
utilized.

Poverty and Fundamental Interests: The Intersection of
 Due Process and Equal Protection
    Generally.—Whatever may be the status of wealth distinc-
tions per se as a suspect classification,2012 there is no doubt that
when the classification affects some area characterized as or consid-
ered to be fundamental in nature in the structure of our polity—
the ability of criminal defendants to obtain fair treatment through-
out the system, the right to vote, to name two examples—then the
classifying body bears a substantial burden in justifying what it has
done. The cases begin with Griffin v. Illinois,2013 surely one of the
most seminal cases in modern constitutional law. There, the state
    2009  570 U.S. ___, No. 12–307, slip op. at 18.
    2010  570 U.S. ___, No. 12–307, slip op. at 25–26.
     2011 570 U.S. ___, No. 12–307, slip op. at 18. Because the case was decided un-

der the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment, which comprehends both sub-
stantive due process and equal protection principles (as incorporated through the
Fourteenth Amendment), this statement leaves unclear precisely how each of these
doctrines bears on the presented issue. Justice Scalia, in dissent, points to the ma-
jority’s assertion that although the “equal protection guarantee of the Fourteenth
Amendment makes [the] Fifth Amendment [due process] right all the more specific
and all the better understood and preserved . . . the Fifth Amendment itself with-
draws from Government the power to degrade or demean in the way this law does.”
Id. at 25. (ellipses added). According to Justice Scalia, this would indicate that the
Equal Protection Clause as incorporated in the Due Process Clause is not the basis
for the majority’s holding. Id. at 16 (Scalia, J., dissenting).
     2012 San Antonio School Dist. v. Rodriguez, 411 U.S. 1 (1973).
     2013 351 U.S. 12 (1956).
