or distribute contraceptives to a minor under 16.654 The Court sig-
nificantly extended the Griswold-Baird line of cases so as to make
the “decision whether or not to beget or bear a child” a “constitu-
tionally protected right of privacy” interest that government may
not burden without justifying the limitation by a compelling state
interest and by a regulation narrowly drawn to express only that
interest or interests.
    For a time, the limits of the privacy doctrine were contained by
the 1986 case of Bowers v. Hardwick,655 where the Court by a 5–4
vote roundly rejected the suggestion that the privacy cases protect-
ing “family, marriage, or procreation” extend protection to private
consensual homosexual sodomy,656 and also rejected the more com-
prehensive claim that the privacy cases “stand for the proposition
that any kind of private sexual conduct between consenting adults
is constitutionally insulated from state proscription.” 657 Heavy reli-
ance was placed on the fact that prohibitions on sodomy have “an-
cient roots,” and on the fact that half of the states still prohibited

     654 431 U.S. at 684–91. The opinion of the Court on the general principles drew

the support of Justices Brennan, Stewart, Marshall, Blackmun, and Stevens. Jus-
tice White concurred in the result in the voiding of the ban on access to adults while
not expressing an opinion on the Court’s general principles. Id. at 702. Justice Pow-
ell agreed the ban on access to adults was void but concurred in an opinion signifi-
cantly more restrained than the opinion of the Court. Id. at 703. Chief Justice Burger,
id. at 702, and Justice Rehnquist, id. at 717, dissented.
     The limitation of the number of outlets to adults “imposes a significant burden
on the right of the individuals to use contraceptives if they choose to do so” and was
unjustified by any interest put forward by the state. The prohibition on sale to mi-
nors was judged not by the compelling state interest test, but instead by inquiring
whether the restrictions serve “any significant state interest . . . that is not present
in the case of an adult.” This test is “apparently less rigorous” than the test used
with adults, a distinction justified by the greater governmental latitude in regulat-
ing the conduct of children and the lesser capability of children in making impor-
tant decisions. The attempted justification for the ban was rejected. Doubting the
permissibility of a ban on access to contraceptives to deter minors’ sexual activity,
the Court even more doubted, because the State presented no evidence, that limit-
ing access would deter minors from engaging in sexual activity. Id. at 691–99. This
portion of the opinion was supported by only Justices Brennan, Stewart, Marshall,
and Blackmun. Justices White, Powell, and Stevens concurred in the result, id. at
702, 703, 712, each on more narrow grounds than the plurality. Again, Chief Justice
Burger and Justice Rehnquist dissented. Id. at 702, 717.
     655 478 U.S. 186 (1986). The Court’s opinion was written by Justice White, and

joined by Chief Justice Burger and by Justices Powell, Rehnquist, and O’Connor.
The Chief Justice and Justice Powell added brief concurring opinions. Justice Blackmun
dissented, joined by Justices Brennan, Marshall, and Stevens, and Justice Stevens,
joined by Justices Brennan and Marshall, added a separate dissenting opinion.
     656 “[N]one of the rights announced in those cases bears any resemblance to the

claimed constitutional right of homosexuals to engage in acts of sodomy.” 478 U.S.
at 190–91.
     657 Justice White’s opinion for the Court in Hardwick sounded the same opposi-

tion to “announcing rights not readily identifiable in the Constitution’s text” that
underlay his dissents in the abortion cases. 478 U.S. at 191. The Court concluded
