Test score, personal statement, recommendations) and on “soft” vari-
ables (e.g., strength of recommendations, quality of undergraduate
institution, difficulty of undergraduate courses). The policy also con-
sidered “racial and ethnic diversity with special reference to the in-
clusion of students from groups which have been historically dis-
criminated against, like African-Americans, Hispanics and Native
Americans . . . .” Although, the policy did not limit the seeking of
diversity to “ethnic and racial” classifications, it did seek a “critical
mass” of minorities so that those students would not feel iso-
lated.1751
    The Grutter Court found that student diversity provided signifi-
cant benefits, not just to the students who might have otherwise
not been admitted, but also to the student body as a whole. These
benefits include “cross-racial understanding,” the breakdown of ra-
cial stereotypes, the improvement of classroom discussion, and the
preparation of students to enter a diverse workforce. Further, the
Court emphasized the role of education in developing national lead-
ers. Thus, the Court found that such efforts were important to “cul-
tivate a set of leaders with legitimacy in the eyes of the citi-
zenry.” 1752 As the university did not rely on quotas, but rather relied
on “flexible assessments” of a student’s record, the Court found that
the university’s policy was “narrowly tailored” to achieve the sub-
stantial governmental interest of achieving a diverse student body.1753
    The law school’s admission policy in Grutter, however, can be
contrasted with the university’s undergraduate admission policy. In
Gratz, the Court evaluated the undergraduate program’s “selection
index,” which assigned applicants up to 150 points based on a vari-
ety of factors similar to those considered by the law school. Appli-
cants with scores over 100 were generally admitted, while those with
scores of less than 100 fell into categories that could result in ei-
ther admittance, postponement, or rejection. Of particular interest
to the Court was that an applicant would be entitled to 20 points
based solely upon his or her membership in an underrepresented
racial or ethnic minority group. The policy also included the “flag-

    1751   539 U.S. at 316.
    1752  539 U.S. at 330, 332.
     1753 539 U.S. at 315. While an educational institution will receive deference in

its judgment as to whether diversity is essential to its education mission, the courts
must closely scrutinize the means by which this goal is achieved. Thus, the institu-
tion will receive no deference regarding the question of the necessity of the means
chosen, and will bear the burden of demonstrating that “each applicant is evaluated
as an individual and not in a way that an applicant’s race or ethnicity is the defin-
ing feature of his or her application.” Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, 570
U.S. ___, No. 11–345, slip op. at 10 (2013) (citation omitted).
