            However, in Richardson v. Ramirez,2068 the Court relied upon
        the implied approval of disqualification upon conviction of crime to
        uphold a state law disqualifying convicted felons for the franchise
        even after the service of their terms. It declined to assess the state
        interests involved and to evaluate the necessity of the rule, holding
        rather that because of § 2 the Equal Protection Clause was simply
        inapplicable.

    SECTIONS 3 AND 4. No Person shall be a Senator or Represen-
tative in Congress, or elector of President and Vice President,
or hold any office, civil or military, under the United States, or
under any State, who, having previously taken an oath, as a
member of Congress, or as an officer of the United States, or as
a member of any State legislature, or as an executive or judi-
cial officer of any State, to support the Constitution of the United
States, shall have engaged in insurrection or rebellion against
the same, or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof. But
congress may by a vote of two thirds of each House, remove such
disability.
    The validity of the public debt of the United States, autho-
rized by law, including debts incurred for payment of pensions
and bounties for services in suppressing insurrection or rebel-
lion, shall not be questioned. But neither the United States nor
any State shall assume or pay any debt or obligation incurred
in aid of insurrection or rebellion against the United States, or
any claim for the loss or emancipation of any slave; but all such
debts, obligations and claims shall be held illegal and void.

        ing), with id. at 229, 250 (Justice Brennan concurring and dissenting). The lan-
        guage of the section recognizing 21 as the usual minimum voting age no doubt played
        some part in the Court’s decision in Oregon v. Mitchell as well. It should also be
        noted that the provision relating to “Indians not taxed” is apparently obsolete now
        in light of an Attorney General ruling that all Indians are subject to taxation. 39
        Op. Att’y Gen. 518 (1940).
             2068 418 U.S. 24 (1974). Justices Marshall, Douglas, and Brennan dissented. Id.

        at 56, 86.
