began to show a greater willingness to defer to legislative judg-
ment as to the wisdom and need of such enactments.
     The significance of Senn 130 was, in part, that the case upheld a
statute that was not appreciably different from a statute voided five
years earlier in Truax v. Corrigan.131 In Truax, the Court had found
that a statute forbidding injunctions on labor protest activities was
unconstitutional as applied to a labor dispute involving picketing,
libelous statements, and threats. The statute that the Court subse-
quently upheld in Senn, by contrast, authorized publicizing labor
disputes, declared peaceful picketing and patrolling lawful, and pro-
hibited the granting of injunctions against such conduct.132 The dif-
ference between these statutes, according to the Court, was that
the law in Senn applied to “peaceful” picketing only, whereas the
law in Truax “was . . . applied to legalize conduct which was not
simply peaceful picketing.” Because the enhancement of job oppor-
tunities for members of the union was a legitimate objective, the
state was held competent to authorize the fostering of that end by
peaceful picketing, and the fact that the sustaining of the union in
its efforts at peaceful persuasion might have the effect of prevent-
ing Senn from continuing in business as an independent entrepre-
neur was declared to present an issue of public policy exclusively
for legislative determination.
    Years later, after regulations protective of labor allowed unions
to amass enormous economic power, many state legislatures at-
tempted to control the abuse of this power, and the Court’s new-
found deference to state labor regulation was also applied to restric-
tions on unions. Thus, the Court upheld state prohibitions on racial
discrimination by unions, rejecting claims that the measure inter-
fered unlawfully with the union’s right to choose its members, abridged
its property rights, or violated its liberty of contract. Because the
union “[held] itself out to represent the general business needs of
employees” and functioned “under the protection of the State,” the




    130 301 U.S. 468 (1937).
    131 257 U.S. 312 (1921).
    132 The statute was applied to deny an injunction to a tiling contractor being

picketed by a union because he refused to sign a closed shop agreement containing
a provision requiring him to abstain from working in his own business as a tile layer
or helper.
