tice that gave rise to a legitimate expectation. Indeed, for a time it
appeared that this positivist conception of protected rights was go-
ing to displace the traditional sources.
    As noted previously, the advent of this new doctrine can be seen
in Goldberg v. Kelly,770 in which the Court held that, because ter-
mination of welfare assistance may deprive an eligible recipient of
the means of livelihood, the government must provide a pre-
termination evidentiary hearing at which an initial determination
of the validity of the dispensing agency’s grounds for termination
may be made. In order to reach this conclusion, the Court found
that such benefits “are a matter of statutory entitlement for per-
sons qualified to receive them.” 771 Thus, where the loss or reduc-
tion of a benefit or privilege was conditioned upon specified grounds,
it was found that the recipient had a property interest entitling him
to proper procedure before termination or revocation.
    At first, the Court’s emphasis on the importance of the statu-
tory rights to the claimant led some lower courts to apply the Due
Process Clause by assessing the weights of the interests involved
and the harm done to one who lost what he was claiming. This ap-
proach, the Court held, was inappropriate. “[W]e must look not to
the ‘weight’ but to the nature of the interest at stake. . . . We must
look to see if the interest is within the Fourteenth Amendment’s
protection of liberty and property.” 772 To have a property interest
in the constitutional sense, the Court held, it was not enough that
one has an abstract need or desire for a benefit or a unilateral ex-
pectation. He must rather “have a legitimate claim of entitlement”
to the benefit. “Property interests, of course, are not created by the
Constitution. Rather, they are created and their dimensions are de-
fined by existing rules or understandings that stem from an inde-
pendent source such as state law—rules or understandings that se-
cure certain benefits and that support claims of entitlement to those
benefits.” 773
    Consequently, in Board of Regents v. Roth, the Court held that
the refusal to renew a teacher’s contract upon expiration of his one-
year term implicated no due process values because there was noth-
    770  397 U.S. 254 (1970).
    771  397 U.S. at 261–62. See also Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319 (1976) (So-
cial Security benefits).
     772 Board of Regents v. Roth, 408 U.S. 564, 569–71 (1972).
     773 408 U.S. at 577. Although property interests often arise by statute, the Court

has also recognized interests established by state case law. Thus, where state court
holdings required that private utilities terminate service only for cause (such as non-
payment of charges), then a utility is required to follow procedures to resolve dis-
putes about payment or the accuracy of charges prior to terminating service. Mem-
phis Light, Gas & Water Div. v. Craft, 436 U.S. 1 (1978).
