as convenient after arrest while information is fresh and sources
are available, and should be conducted by someone not directly in-
volved in the case, though he need not be a judicial officer. The pa-
rolee should be given adequate notice that the hearing will take
place and what violations are alleged, he should be able to appear
and speak in his own behalf and produce other evidence, and he
should be allowed to examine those who have given adverse evi-
dence against him unless it is determined that the identity of such
informant should not be revealed. Also, the hearing officer should
prepare a digest of the hearing and base his decision upon the evi-
dence adduced at the hearing.1232
     Prior to the final decision on revocation, there should be a more
formal revocation hearing at which there would be a final evalua-
tion of any contested relevant facts and consideration whether the
facts as determined warrant revocation. The hearing must take place
within a reasonable time after the parolee is taken into custody and
he must be enabled to controvert the allegations or offer evidence
in mitigation. The procedural details of such hearings are for the
states to develop, but the Court specified minimum requirements
of due process. “They include (a) written notice of the claimed vio-
lations of parole; (b) disclosure to the parolee of evidence against
him; (c) opportunity to be heard in person and to present witnesses
and documentary evidence; (d) the right to confront and cross-
examine adverse witnesses (unless the hearing officer specifically
finds good cause for not allowing confrontation); (e) a ‘neutral and
detached’ hearing body such as a traditional parole board, mem-
bers of which need not be judicial officers or lawyers; and (f) a writ-
ten statement by the factfinders as to the evidence relied on and
the reasons for revoking parole.” 1233 Ordinarily, the written state-
ment need not indicate that the sentencing court or review board
considered alternatives to incarceration,1234 but a sentencing court
must consider such alternatives if the probation violation consists
of the failure of an indigent probationer, through no fault of his own,
to pay a fine or restitution.1235
     The Court has applied a flexible due process standard to the
provision of counsel. Counsel is not invariably required in parole or
probation revocation proceedings. The state should, however, pro-
vide the assistance of counsel where an indigent person may have
difficulty in presenting his version of disputed facts without cross-
examination of witnesses or presentation of complicated documen-
   1232 408 U.S. at 484–87.
   1233 408 U.S. at 489.
   1234 Black v. Romano, 471 U.S. 606 (1985).
   1235 Bearden v. Georgia, 461 U.S. 660, 672 (1983).
