lish that the alleged objective is the actual purpose underlying the
discriminatory classification.” 1838 Even if the classification was pre-
mised on the proffered basis, the Court concluded, it did not sub-
stantially and directly relate to the objective, because the school per-
mitted men to audit the nursing classes and women could still be
adversely affected by the presence of men.1839
    In a 1996 case, the Court required that a state demonstrate “ex-
ceedingly persuasive justification” for gender discrimination. When
a female applicant challenged the exclusion of women from the his-
torically male-only Virginia Military Institute (VMI), the State of
Virginia defended the exclusion of females as essential to the na-
ture of training at the military school.1840 The state argued that
the VMI program, which included rigorous physical training, depri-
vation of personal privacy, and an “adversative model” that fea-
tured minute regulation of behavior, would need to be unaccept-
ably modified to facilitate the admission of women. While recognizing
that women’s admission would require accommodation such as dif-
ferent housing assignments and physical training programs, the Court
found that the reasons set forth by the state were not “exceedingly
persuasive,” and thus the state did not meet its burden of justifica-
tion. The Court also rejected the argument that a parallel program
established by the state at a private women’s college served as an
adequate substitute, finding that the program lacked the military-
style structure found at VMI, and that it did not equal VMI in fac-
ulty, facilities, prestige or alumni network.
    Another area presenting some difficulty is that of the relation-
ship of pregnancy classifications to gender discrimination. In Cleve-
     1838 458 U.S. at 730. In addition to obligating the state to show that in fact there

was existing discrimination or effects from past discrimination, the Court also ap-
peared to take the substantial step of requiring the state “to establish that the leg-
islature intended the single-sex policy to compensate for any perceived discrimina-
tion.” Id. at 730 n.16. A requirement that the proffered purpose be the actual one
and that it must be shown that the legislature actually had that purpose in mind
would be a notable stiffening of equal protection standards.
     1839 In the major dissent, Justice Powell argued that only a rational basis stan-

dard ought to be applied to sex classifications that would “ expand women’s choices,”
but that the exclusion here satisfied intermediate review because it promoted diver-
sity of educational opportunity and was premised on the belief that single-sex col-
leges offer “distinctive benefits” to society. Id. at 735, 740 (emphasis by Justice), 743.
The Court noted that, because the state maintained no other single-sex public uni-
versity or college, the case did not present “the question of whether States can pro-
vide ‘separate but equal’ undergraduate institutions for males and females,” id. at
720 n.1, although Justice Powell thought the decision did preclude such institu-
tions. Id. at 742–44. See Vorchheimer v. School Dist. of Philadelphia, 532 F. 2d 880
(3d Cir. 1976) (finding no equal protection violation in maintenance of two single-
sex high schools of equal educational offerings, one for males, one for females), aff ’d
by an equally divided Court, 430 U.S. 703 (1977) (Justice Rehnquist not participat-
ing).
     1840 United States v. Virginia, 518 U.S. 515 (1996).
