    In an opinion by Chief Justice Roberts, a majority of the Court
in Parents Involved in Community Schools agreed that the plans
before the Court did not include the kind of individualized consid-
erations that had been at issue in the university admissions pro-
cess in Grutter, but rather focused primarily on racial consider-
ations. 1759 Although a majority of the Court found the plans
unconstitutional, only four Justices (including the Chief Justice) con-
cluded that alleviating “de facto” racial imbalance in elementary and
secondary schools could never be a compelling governmental inter-
est. Justice Kennedy, while finding that the school plans at issue
were unconstitutional because they were not narrowly tailored,1760
suggested in separate concurrence that relieving “racial isolation”
could be a compelling governmental interest. The Justice even en-
visioned the use of plans based on individual racial classifications
“as a last resort” if other means failed.1761 As Justice Kennedy’s con-
currence appears to represent a narrower basis for the judgment of
the Court than does Justice Roberts’ opinion, it appears to repre-
sent, for the moment, the controlling opinion for the lower courts.1762

                     THE NEW EQUAL PROTECTION

Classifications Meriting Close Scrutiny
     Alienage and Nationality.—“It has long been settled . . . that
the term ‘person’ [in the Equal Protection Clause] encompasses law-
fully admitted resident aliens as well as citizens of the United States
and entitles both citizens and aliens to the equal protection of the

     1759 127 S. Ct. at 2753–54. The Court also noted that, in Grutter, the Court had

relied upon “considerations unique to institutions of higher education.” Id. at 2574
(finding that, as stated in Grutter, 539 U.S. at 329, because of the “expansive free-
doms of speech and thought associated with the university environment, universi-
ties occupy a special niche in our constitutional tradition”).
     1760 In his analysis of whether the plans were narrowly tailored to the govern-

mental interest in question, Justice Kennedy focused on a lack of clarity in the ad-
ministration and application of Kentucky’s plan and the use of the “crude racial cat-
egories” of “white” and “non-white” (which failed to distinguish among racial minorities)
in the Seattle plan. 127 S. Ct. at 2790–91.
     1761 127 S. Ct. at 2760–61. Some other means suggested by Justice Kennedy

(which by implication could be constitutionally used to address racial imbalance in
schools) included strategic site selection for new schools, the redrawing of atten-
dance zones, the allocation of resources for special programs, the targeted recruiting
of students and faculty, and the tracking of enrollments, performance, and other sta-
tistics by race.
     1762 Marks v. United States, 430 U.S. 188, 193 (1977) (“When a fragmented Court

decides a case and no single rationale enjoys the assent of five Justices, ‘the holding
of the Court may be viewed as that position taken by those Members who concurred
in the judgment on the narrowest grounds . . . .’ ”).
