ging” of certain applications for special review, and underrepre-
sented minorities were among those whose applications were
flagged.1754
     The Court in Gratz struck down this admissions policy, relying
again on Justice Powell’s decision in Bakke. Although Justice Pow-
ell had thought it permissible that “race or ethnic background . . .
be deemed a ‘plus’ in a particular applicant’s file,” 1755 the system
he envisioned involved individualized consideration of all elements
of an application to ascertain how the applicant would contribute
to the diversity of the student body. According to the majority opin-
ion in Gratz, the undergraduate policy did not provide for such in-
dividualized consideration. Instead, by automatically distributing 20
points to every applicant from an “underrepresented minority” group,
the policy effectively admitted every qualified minority applicant.
Although it acknowledged that the volume of applications could make
individualized assessments an “administrative challenge,” the Court
found that the policy was not narrowly tailored to achieve respon-
dents’ asserted compelling interest in diversity.1756
     While institutions of higher education were striving to increase
racial diversity in their student populations, state and local govern-
ments were engaged in a similar effort with respect to elementary
and secondary schools. Whether this goal could be constitutionally
achieved after Grutter and Gratz, however, remained unclear, espe-
cially as the type of individualized admission considerations found
in higher education are less likely to have useful analogies in the
context of public school assignments. Thus, for instance, in Parents
Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School District No. 1,1757
the Court rejected plans in both Seattle, Washington and Jefferson
County, Kentucky, that, in order reduce what the Court found to be
“de facto” racial imbalance in the schools, used “racial tiebreakers”
to determine school assignments.1758 As in Bakke, numerous opin-
ions by a fractured Court led to an uncertain resolution of the is-
sue.
    1754  539 U.S. at 272–73.
    1755  438 U.S. at 317.
     1756 438 U.S. at 284–85.
     1757 551 U.S. 701 (2007). Another case involving racial diversity in public schools,

Meredith v. Jefferson County Board of Education, was argued separately before the
Court on the same day, but the two cases were subsequently consolidated and both
were addressed in the cited opinion.
     1758 In Seattle, students could choose among 10 high schools in the school dis-

trict, but, if an oversubscribed school was not within 10 percentage points of the
district’s overall white/nonwhite racial balance, the district would assign students
whose race would serve to bring the school closer to the desired racial balance. 127
S. Ct. at 2747. In Jefferson County, assignments and transfers were limited when
such action would cause a school’s black enrollment to fall below 15 percent or ex-
ceed 50 percent. Id. at 2749.
