petual censor upon all legislation of the States, on the civil rights
of their own citizens, with authority to nullify such as it did not
approve as consistent with those rights, as they existed at the time
of the adoption of this amendment. . . . [The effect of] so great a
departure from the structure and spirit of our institutions . . . is to
fetter and degrade the State governments by subjecting them to the
control of Congress, in the exercise of powers heretofore univer-
sally conceded to them of the most ordinary and fundamental char-
acter . . . . We are convinced that no such results were intended
by the Congress which proposed these amendments, nor by the leg-
islatures of the States which ratified them,” and that the “one per-
vading purpose” of this and the other War Amendments was “the
freedom of the slave race.”
    Based on these conclusions, the Court held that none of the rights
alleged by the competing New Orleans butchers to have been vio-
lated were derived from the butchers’ national citizenship; insofar
as the Louisiana law interfered with their pursuit of the business
of butchering animals, the privilege was one that “belong to the citi-
zens of the States as such.” Despite the broad language of this clause,
the Court held that the privileges and immunities of state citizen-
ship had been “left to the State governments for security and pro-
tection” and had not been placed by the clause “under the special
care of the Federal government.” The only privileges that the Four-
teenth Amendment protected against state encroachment were de-
clared to be those “which owe their existence to the Federal Govern-
ment, its National character, its Constitution, or its laws.” 18 These
privileges, however, had been available to United States citizens and
protected from state interference by operation of federal supremacy
even prior to the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment. The
Slaughter-House Cases, therefore, reduced the Privileges or Immu-
nities Clause to a superfluous reiteration of a prohibition already
operative against the states.
    Although the Court in the Slaughter-House Cases expressed a
reluctance to enumerate those privileges and immunities of United
States citizens that are protected against state encroachment, it nev-
ertheless felt obliged to suggest some. Among those that it identi-
fied were the right of access to the seat of government and to the
seaports, subtreasuries, land officers, and courts of justice in the
several states, the right to demand protection of the Federal Gov-
ernment on the high seas or abroad, the right of assembly, the privi-
lege of habeas corpus, the right to use the navigable waters of the

   18   83 U.S. at 78, 79.
