in politics, religion, and expression of ideas—are explicitly pro-
tected by the Constitution. Totally unlimited play for free will, how-
ever, is not allowed in our or any other society. . . . [Many laws
are enacted] to protect the weak, the uninformed, the unsuspect-
ing, and the gullible from the exercise of their own volition.” 646
     Furthermore, continued the Court in Paris Adult Theatre I, “[o]ur
Constitution establishes a broad range of conditions on the exer-
cise of power by the States, but for us to say that our Constitution
incorporates the proposition that conduct involving consenting adults
is always beyond state regulation is a step we are unable to take. . . .
The issue in this context goes beyond whether someone, or even
the majority, considers the conduct depicted as ‘wrong’ or ‘sinful.’
The States have the power to make a morally neutral judgment that
public exhibition of obscene material, or commerce in such mate-
rial, has a tendency to injure the community as a whole, to endan-
ger the public safety, or to jeopardize . . . the States’ ‘right . . . to
maintain a decent society.’ ” 647
     Ultimately, the idea that acts should be protected not because
of what they are, but because of where they are performed, may
have begun and ended with Stanley. The limited impact of Stanley
was reemphasized in Bowers v. Hardwick.648 The Court in Bowers,
finding that there is no protected right to engage in homosexual
sodomy in the privacy of the home, held that Stanley did not implic-
itly create protection for “voluntary sexual conduct [in the home]

     646 413 U.S. at 64. Similar themes can be found in Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113,

148 (1972), decided the year before. Because the Court had determined that the right
to obtain an abortion constituted a protected “liberty,” the State was required to jus-
tify its proscription by a compelling interest. Departing from a laissez faire, “free
will” approach to individual autonomy, the Court recognized protecting the health of
the mother as a valid interest. The Court also mentioned but did not rule upon a
state interest in protecting morality. The Court was referring not to the morality of
abortion, but instead to the promotion of sexual morality through making abortion
unavailable. Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113, 148 (1972).
     647 Paris Adult Theatre I v. Slaton, 413 U.S. 49, 57–63, 63–64, 68–69 (1973); see

also id. at 68 n.15. Although it denied a privacy right to view obscenity in a theater,
the Court recognized that, in order to protect otherwise recognized autonomy rights,
the privacy right might need to be expanded to a variety of different locations: “[T]he
constitutionally protected privacy of family, marriage, motherhood, procreation, and
child rearing is not just concerned with a particular place, but with a protected inti-
mate relationship. Such protected privacy extends to the doctor’s office, the hospital,
the hotel room, or as otherwise required to safeguard the right to intimacy in-
volved.” Paris Adult Theatre I v. Slaton, 413 U.S. 49, 66 n.13 (1973). Thus, argu-
ably, the constitutional protection of places (as opposed to activities) arises not be-
cause of any inherent privacy of the location, but because the protected activities
normally take place in those locales.
     648 478 U.S. 186 (1986).
