ing stage or in the revocation stage. Now, both granting and revo-
cation are subject to due process analysis, although the results tend
to be disparate. Thus, in Mempa v. Rhay,1228 the trial judge had
deferred sentencing and placed the convicted defendant on proba-
tion; when facts subsequently developed that indicated a violation
of the conditions of probation, he was summoned and summarily
sentenced to prison. The Court held that he was entitled to counsel
at the deferred sentencing hearing.
     In Morrissey v. Brewer 1229 a unanimous Court held that parole
revocations must be accompanied by the usual due process hearing
and notice requirements. “[T]he revocation of parole is not part of
a criminal prosecution and thus the full panoply of rights due a
defendant in such a proceeding does not apply to parole revocation
. . . [But] the liberty of a parolee, although indeterminate, includes
many of the core values of unqualified liberty and its termination
inflicts a ‘grievous loss’ on the parolee and often on others. It is
hardly useful any longer to try to deal with this problem in terms
of whether the parolee’s liberty is a ‘right’ or a ‘privilege.’ By what-
ever name, the liberty is valuable and must be seen as within the
protection of the Fourteenth Amendment. Its termination calls for
some orderly process, however informal.” 1230 What process is due,
then, turned upon the state’s interests. Its principal interest was
that, having once convicted a defendant, imprisoned him, and, at
some risk, released him for rehabilitation purposes, it should be “able
to return the individual to imprisonment without the burden of a
new adversary criminal trial if in fact he has failed to abide by the
conditions of his parole. Yet, the state has no interest in revoking
parole without some informal procedural guarantees,” inasmuch as
such guarantees will not interfere with its reasonable interests.1231
     Minimal due process, the Court held, requires that at both stages
of the revocation process—the arrest of the parolee and the formal
revocation—the parolee is entitled to certain rights. Promptly fol-
lowing arrest of the parolee, there should be an informal hearing
to determine whether reasonable grounds exist for revocation of pa-
role; this preliminary hearing should be conducted at or reasonably
near the place of the alleged parole violation or arrest and as promptly
the parolee was being granted a privilege and that he should neither expect nor
seek due process. Then-Judge Burger in Hyser v. Reed, 318 F.2d 225 (D.C. Cir.),
cert. denied, 375 U.S. 957 (1963), reasoned that due process was inapplicable be-
cause the parole board’s function was to assist the prisoner’s rehabilitation and res-
toration to society and that there was no adversary relationship between the board
and the parolee.
     1228 389 U.S. 128 (1967).
     1229 408 U.S. 471 (1972).
     1230 408 U.S. at 480, 482.
     1231 408 U.S. at 483.
