when considered in the totality of the circumstances of discrimina-
tion in registration and voting and in access to other political oppor-
tunities, such use denied African-Americans and Mexican-
Americans the opportunity to participate in the election process in
a reliable and meaningful manner.1958
    Doubt was cast on the continuing vitality of White v. Regester,
however, by the badly split opinion of the Court in City of Mobile v.
Bolden.1959 A plurality undermined the earlier case in two respects,
although it is not at all clear that a majority of the Court had been
or could be assembled on either point. First, the plurality argued
that an intent to discriminate on the part of the redistricting body
must be shown before multimember districting can be held to vio-
late the Equal Protection Clause.1960 Second, the plurality read White
v. Regester as being consistent with this principle and the various
factors developed in that case to demonstrate the existence of un-
constitutional discrimination to be in fact indicia of intent; how-
ever, the plurality seemingly disregarded the totality of circum-
stances test used in Regester and evaluated instead whether each
factor alone was sufficient proof of intent.1961
    Again switching course, the Court in Rogers v. Lodge 1962 ap-
proved the findings of the lower courts that a multimember elec-
toral system for electing a county board of commissioners was be-
ing maintained for a racially discriminatory purpose, although it
had not been instituted for that purpose. Applying a totality of the
circumstances test, and deferring to lower court factfinding, the Court,
in an opinion by one of the Mobile dissenters, canvassed a range of
factors that it held could combine to show a discriminatory motive,
     1958 “To sustain such claims, it is not enough that the racial group allegedly dis-

criminated against has not had legislative seats in proportion to its voting poten-
tial. The plaintiffs’ burden is to produce evidence to support findings that the politi-
cal processes leading to nomination and election were not equally open to participation
by the group in question—that its members had less opportunity than did other resi-
dents in the district to participate in the political processes and to elect legislators
of their choice.” 412 U.S. at 765–66.
     1959 446 U.S. 55 (1980).
     1960 446 U.S. at 65–68 (Justices Stewart, Powell, Rehnquist, and Chief Justice

Burger). On intent versus impact analysis, see discussion, supra. Justices Blackmun
and Stevens concurred on other grounds, id. at 80, 83, and Justices White, Bren-
nan, and Marshall dissented. Id. at 94, 103. Justice White agreed that purposeful
discrimination must be found, id. at 101, while finding it to have been shown, Jus-
tice Blackmun assumed that intent was required, and Justices Stevens, Brennan,
and Marshall would not so hold.
     1961 446 U.S. at 68–74. Four Justices rejected this view of the plurality, while

Justice Stevens also appeared to do so but followed a mode of analysis significantly
different from that of any other Justice.
     1962 458 U.S. 613 (1982). Joining the opinion of the Court were Justices White,

Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, O’Connor, and Chief Justice Burger. Dissenting were
Justices Powell and Rehnquist, id. at 628, and Justice Stevens. Id. at 631.
