posed, states may adopt measures “designed to persuade [a woman]
to choose childbirth over abortion.” 603
    Casey did, however, overturn earlier decisions striking down in-
formed consent and 24-hour waiting periods.604 Given the state’s le-
gitimate interests in protecting the life of the unborn and the health
of the potential mother, and applying “undue burden” analysis, the
three-Justice plurality found these requirements permissible.605After
The Court also upheld application of an additional requirement that
women under age 18 obtain the consent of one parent or avail them-
selves of a judicial bypass alternative.
    On the other hand, the Court 606 distinguished Pennsylvania’s
spousal notification provision as constituting an undue burden on
a woman’s right to choose an abortion. “A State may not give to a
man the kind of dominion over his wife that parents exercise over
their children” (and that men exercised over their wives at com-
mon law).607 Although there was an exception for a woman who be-
lieved that notifying her husband would subject her to bodily in-
jury, this exception was not broad enough to cover other forms of
abusive retaliation, e.g., psychological intimidation, bodily harm to
children, or financial deprivation. To require a wife to notify her
husband in spite of her fear of such abuse would unduly burden
the wife’s liberty to decide whether to bear a child.
    The passage of various state laws restricting so-called “partial
birth abortions” gave observers an opportunity to see if the “undue
     603 505 U.S. at 877–78. Application of these principles in Casey led the Court to

uphold overrule some precedent, but to invalidate arguably the most restrictive pro-
vision. The four provisions challenged which were upheld included a narrowed defi-
nition of “medical emergency” (which controlled exemptions from the Act’s limita-
tions), record keeping and reporting requirements, an informed consent and 24-hour
waiting period requirement; and a parental consent requirement, with possibility
for judicial bypass, applicable to minors. The provisions which was invalidated as
an undue burden on a woman’s right to an abortion was a spousal notification re-
quirement.
     604 City of Akron v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health, 462 U.S. 416 (1983)

(invalidating “informed consent” and 24-hour waiting period); Thornburgh v. Ameri-
can College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, 476 U.S. 747 (1986) (invalidating
informed consent requirement).
     605 Requiring informed consent for medical procedures was found to be both com-

monplace and reasonable, and, in the absence of any evidence of burden, the state
could require that information relevant to informed consent be provided by a physi-
cian rather than an assistant. The 24-hour waiting period was approved both in theory
(it being reasonable to assume “that important decisions will be more informed and
deliberate if they follow some period of reflection”) and in practice (in spite of “trou-
bling” findings of increased burdens on poorer women who must travel significant
distances to obtain abortions, and on all women who must twice rather than once
brave harassment by anti-abortion protesters). 505 U.S. at 885–87.
     606 The plurality Justices were joined in this part of their opinion by Justices

Blackmun and Stevens.
     607 505 U.S. at 898.
