     The abilty of Congress to show a history and pattern of uncon-
stitutional discriminiation would appear to increase along with the
the level of protection afforded to an effected class. Consequently,
when the Court consider legslation designed to alleviate gender dis-
crimination, it de-emphasized the need for a substantial legislative
record. In Nevada Department of Human Resources v. Hibbs,2150 the
Court considered the recovery of monetary damages against states
under the Family and Medical Leave Act. This Act provides, among
other things, that both male and female employees may take up to
twelve weeks of unpaid “family care” leave to care for a close rela-
tive with a serious health condition. Noting that § 5 could be used
to justify prophylactic legislation, the Court accepted the argument
that the Act was intended to prevent gender-based discrimination
in the workplace tracing to the historic stereotype that women are
the primary caregivers. Congress had documented historical in-
stances of discrimination against women by state governments, and
had found that women were provided maternity leave more often
than were men.
     Although there was a relative absence of proof that states were
still engaged in wholesale gender discrimination in employment, the
Court distinguished Garrett and Kimel, which had held Congress
to a high standard for justifying legislation attempting to remedy
classifications subject only to rational basis review. “Because the stan-
dard for demonstrating the constitutionality of a gender-based clas-
sification is more difficult to meet than our rational basis test . . .
it was easier for Congress to show a pattern of state constitutional
violations.” 2151 Consequently, the Court upheld an across-the-
board, routine employment benefit for all eligible employees as a
congruent and proportional response to the “state-sanctioned” gen-
der stereotypes.
     Nine years after Hibbs, the Court returned to the Family and
Medical Leave Act, this time to consider the Act’s “self care” (per-
sonal medical) leave provisions. There, in Coleman v. Court of Ap-
peals of Md., a four-Justice plurality, joined by concurring Justice
Scalia, found the self care provisions too attenuated from the gen-
der protective roots of the family care provisions to merit height-
ened consideration.2152 According to the plurality, the self care pro-
visions were intended to ameliorate discrimination based on illness,
    2150 538 U.S. 721 (2003).
    2151 538 U.S. at 736. Statutory classifications that distinguish between males
and females are subject to heightened scrutiny, Craig v. Boren, 429 U.S. 190, 197–
199 (1976), so they must be substantially related to the achievement of important
governmental objectives, United States v. Virginia, 518 U.S. 515, 533 (1996).
    2152 566 U.S. ___, No. 10–1016, slip op. (2012) (male state employee denied un-

paid sick leave).
