without due process of law. There is here abundant evidence that
there exists some strange misconception of the scope of this provi-
sion as found in the fourteenth amendment. In fact, it would seem,
from the character of many of the cases before us, and the argu-
ments made in them, that the clause under consideration is looked
upon as a means of bringing to the test of the decision of this court
the abstract opinions of every unsuccessful litigant in a State court
of the justice of the decision against him, and of the merits of the
legislation on which such a decision may be founded. If, therefore,
it were possible to define what it is for a State to deprive a person
of life, liberty, or property without due process of law, in terms which
would cover every exercise of power thus forbidden to the State,
and exclude those which are not, no more useful construction could
be furnished by this or any other court to any part of the fundamen-
tal law. But, apart from the imminent risk of a failure to give any
definition which would be at once perspicuous, comprehensive, and
satisfactory, there is wisdom, we think, in the ascertaining of the
intent and application of such an important phrase in the Federal
Constitution, by the gradual process of judicial inclusion and exclu-
sion, as the cases presented for decision shall require, with the rea-
soning on which such decisions may be founded.”
     A bare half-dozen years later, however, in Hurtado v. Califor-
nia,68 the Justices gave warning of an impending modification of
their views. Justice Mathews, speaking for the Court, noted that
due process under the United States Constitution differed from due
process in English common law in that the latter applied only to
executive and judicial acts, whereas the former also applied to leg-
islative acts. Consequently, the limits of the due process under the
14th Amendment could not be appraised solely in terms of the “sanc-
tion of settled usage” under common law. The Court then declared
that “[a]rbitrary power, enforcing its edicts to the injury of the per-
sons and property of its subjects, is not law, whether manifested as
the decree of a personal monarch or of an impersonal multitude.
And the limitations imposed by our constitutional law upon the ac-
tion of the governments, both state and national, are essential to
the preservation of public and private rights, notwithstanding the
representative character of our political institutions. The enforce-
ment of these limitations by judicial process is the device of self-
governing communities to protect the rights of individuals and mi-
norities, as well against the power of numbers, as against the violence
of public agents transcending the limits of lawful authority, even
when acting in the name and wielding the force of the govern-
ment.” By this language, the states were put on notice that all types
   68   110 U.S. 516, 528, 532, 536 (1884).
