Marriage and Familial Relations
    In Zablocki v. Redhail,1994 importing into equal protection analy-
sis the doctrines developed in substantive due process, the Court
identified the right to marry as a “fundamental interest” that neces-
sitates “critical examination” of governmental restrictions that “in-
terfere directly and substantially” with the right.1995 The Court struck
down a statute that prohibited any resident under an obligation to
support minor children from marrying without a court order; such
order could only be obtained upon a showing that the support obli-
gation had been and was being complied with and that the chil-
dren were not and were not likely to become public charges. The
plaintiff was an indigent wishing to marry but prevented from do-
ing so because he was not complying with a court order to pay sup-
port to an illegitimate child he had fathered, and because the child
was receiving public assistance. Applying “critical examination,” the
Court observed that the statutory prohibition could not be sus-
tained unless it was justified by sufficiently important state inter-
ests and was closely tailored to effectuate only those interests.1996
Two interests were offered that the Court was willing to accept as
legitimate and substantial: requiring permission under the circum-
stances furnished an opportunity to counsel applicants on the ne-
cessity of fulfilling support obligations, and the process protected
the welfare of children who needed support, either by providing an
incentive to make support payments or by preventing applicants from
incurring new obligations through marriage. The first interest was
not served, the Court found, there being no provision for counsel-
ing and no authorization of permission to marry once counseling
had taken place. The second interest was found not to be effectu-
ated by the means. Alternative devices to collect support existed,
the process simply prevented marriage without delivering any money
to the children, and it singled out obligations incurred through mar-
riage without reaching any other obligations.
    Other restrictions that relate to the incidents of or prerequi-
sites for marriage were carefully distinguished by the Court as nei-
ther entitled to rigorous scrutiny nor put in jeopardy by the deci-
    1994  434 U.S. 374 (1978).
    1995  Although the Court’s due process decisions have broadly defined a pro-
tected liberty interest in marriage and family, no previous case had held marriage
to be a fundamental right occasioning strict scrutiny. 434 U.S. at 396–397 (Justice
Powell concurring).
     1996 434 U.S. at 388. Although the passage is not phrased in the usual compel-

ling interest terms, the concurrence and the dissent so viewed it without evoking
disagreement from the Court. Id. at 396 (Justice Powell), 403 (Justice Stevens), 407
(Justice Rehnquist). Justices Powell and Stevens would have applied intermediate
scrutiny to void the statute, both for its effect on the ability to marry and for its
impact upon indigents. Id. at 400, 406 n.10.
