    Counting and Weighing of Votes.—In Bush v. Gore,1967 a case
of dramatic result but of perhaps limited significance for equal pro-
tection, the Supreme Court ended a ballot dispute that arose dur-
ing the year 2000 presidential election. The Florida Supreme Court
had ordered a partial manual recount of the Florida vote for Presi-
dential Electors, requiring that all ballots that contained a “clear
indication of the intent of the voter” be counted, but allowing the
relevant counties to determine what physical characteristics of a bal-
lot would satisfy this test. The Court held that the Equal Protec-
tion Clause would be violated by allowing arbitrary and disparate
methods of discerning voter intent in the recounting of ballots. The
decision was surprising to many, as a lack of uniformity in voting
standards and procedures is inherent in the American system of de-
centralized voting administration. The Court, however, limited its
holding to “the present circumstances,” where “a state court with
the power to assure uniformity” fails to provide “minimal proce-
dural safeguards.” 1968 Citing the “many complexities” of applica-
tion of equal protection “in election processes generally,” the Court
distinguished the many situations where disparate treatment of votes
results from different standards being applied by different local ju-
risdictions.
     In cases where votes are given more or less weight by opera-
tion of law, it is not the weighing of votes itself that may violate
the 14th Amendment, but the manner in which it is done. Gray v.
Sanders,1969 for instance, struck down the Georgia county unit sys-
tem under which each county was allocated either two, four, or six
votes in statewide elections and the candidate carrying the county
received those votes. Because there were a few very populous coun-
ties and scores of poorly populated ones, the rural counties in ef-
fect dominated statewide elections and candidates with popular ma-
jorities statewide could be and were defeated. But Gordon v. Lance 1970
approved a provision requiring a 60-percent affirmative vote in a
referendum election before constitutionally prescribed limits on bonded
indebtedness or tax rates could be exceeded. The Court acknowl-
edged that the provision departed from strict majority rule but stated
that the Constitution did not prescribe majority rule; it instead pro-
scribed discrimination through dilution of voting power or denial of
the franchise because of some class characteristic—race, urban resi-
dency, or the like—and the provision at issue in this case was nei-
ther directed to nor affected any identifiable class.
   1967 531   U.S.   98 (2000).
   1968 531   U.S.   at 109.
   1969 372   U.S.   368 (1963).
   1970 403   U.S.   1 (1971).
