cant categories of illegitimate children of intestate men, inheri-
tance rights can be recognized without jeopardizing the orderly settle-
ment of estates or the dependability of titles to property passing
under intestacy laws.” 1852 Because the state law did not follow a
reasonable middle ground, it was invalidated.
     A reasonable middle ground was discerned, at least by Justice
Powell, in Lalli v. Lalli,1853 concerning a statute that permitted le-
gitimate children to inherit automatically from both their parents,
while illegitimates could inherit automatically only from their moth-
ers, and could inherit from their intestate fathers only if a court of
competent jurisdiction had, during the father’s lifetime, entered an
order declaring paternity. The child tendered evidence of paternity,
including a notarized document in which the putative father, in con-
senting to his marriage, referred to him as “my son” and several
affidavits by persons who stated that the elder Lalli had openly and
frequently acknowledged that the younger Lalli was his child. In
the prevailing view, the single requirement of entry of a court or-
der during the father’s lifetime declaring the child as his met the
“middle ground” requirement of Trimble; it was addressed closely
and precisely to the substantial state interest of seeing to the or-
derly disposition of property at death by establishing proof of pater-
nity of illegitimate children and avoiding spurious claims against
intestate estates. To be sure, some illegitimates who were unques-
tionably established as children of the decreased would be disquali-
fied because of failure of compliance, but individual fairness is not
the test. The test rather is whether the requirement is closely enough
related to the interests served to meet the standard of rationality
imposed. Also, although the state’s interest could no doubt have been
served by permitting other kinds of proof, that too is not the test of
the statute’s validity. Hence, the balancing necessitated by the Court’s
promulgation of standards in such cases caused it to come to differ-

     1852 Trimble v. Gordon, 430 U.S. 762, 770–73 (1977). The result is in effect a

balancing one, the means-ends relationship must be a substantial one in terms of
the advantages of the classification as compared to the harms of the classification
means. Justice Rehnquist’s dissent is especially critical of this approach. Id. at 777,
781–86. Also not interfering with orderly administration of estates is application of
Trimble in a probate proceeding ongoing at the time Trimble was decided; the fact
that the death had occurred prior to Trimble was irrelevant. Reed v. Campbell, 476
U.S. 852 (1986).
     1853 439 U.S. 259 (1978). The four Trimble dissenters joined Justice Powell in

the result, although only two joined his opinion. Justices Blackmun and Rehnquist
concurred because they thought Trimble wrongly decided and ripe for overruling.
Id. at 276. The four dissenters, who had joined the Trimble majority with Justice
Powell, thought the two cases were indistinguishable. Id. at 277.
