v. Kansas,78 rather than presume the relevant facts, the Court sus-
tained a statewide anti-liquor law based on the proposition that the
deleterious social effects of the excessive use of alcoholic liquors were
sufficiently notorious for the Court to be able to take notice of them.79
This opened the door for future Court appraisals of the facts that
had induced the legislature to enact the statute.80
     Mugler was significant because it implied that, unless the Court
found by judicial notice the existence of justifying fact, it would in-
validate a police power regulation as bearing no reasonable or ad-
equate relation to the purposes to be subserved by the latter—
namely, health, morals, or safety. Interestingly, the Court found the
rule of presumed validity quite serviceable for appraising state leg-
islation affecting neither liberty nor property, but for legislation con-
stituting governmental interference in the field of economic rela-
tions, especially labor-management relations, the Court found the
principle of judicial notice more advantageous. In litigation embrac-
ing the latter type of legislation, the Court would also tend to shift
the burden of proof, which had been with litigants challenging leg-
islation, to the state seeking enforcement. Thus, the state had the
task of demonstrating that a statute interfering with a natural right
of liberty or property was in fact “authorized” by the Constitution,
and not merely that the latter did not expressly prohibit enact-
ment of the same. As will be discussed in detail below, this ap-
proach was used from the turn of the century through the mid-
1930s to strike down numerous laws that were seen as restricting
economic liberties.
    As a result of the Depression, however, the laissez faire ap-
proach to economic regulation lost favor to the dictates of the New
Deal. Thus, in 1934, the Court in Nebbia v. New York 81 discarded
this approach to economic legislation. The modern approach is ex-
emplified by the 1955 decision, Williamson v. Lee Optical Co.,82 which
upheld a statutory scheme regulating the sale of eyeglasses that
favored ophthalmologists and optometrists in private professional
    78  123 U.S. 623 (1887).
    79  123 U.S. at 662. “We cannot shut out of view the fact, within the knowledge
of all, that the public health, the public morals, and the public safety, may be endan-
gered by the general use of intoxicating drinks; nor the fact . . . that . . . pauper-
ism, and crime . . . are, in some degree, at least, traceable to this evil.”
     80 The following year the Court, confronted with an act restricting the sale of

oleomargarine, of which the Court could not claim a like measure of common knowl-
edge, briefly retreated to the doctrine of presumed validity, declaring that “it does
not appear upon the face of the statute, or from any of the facts of which the Court
must take judicial cognizance, that it infringes rights secured by the fundamental
law.” Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U.S. 678, 685 (1888).
     81 291 U.S. 502 (1934).
     82 348 U.S. 483 (1955).
