statute. The Court also found that there was a “rational basis” for
the limitation, including governmental interests in the expression
of “respect for the dignity of human life,” “protecting the integrity
and ethics of the medical profession,” and the creation of a “dia-
logue that better informs the political and legal systems, the medi-
cal profession, expectant mothers, and society as a whole of the con-
sequences that follow from a decision to elect a late-term abortion.” 621
    Privacy after Roe: Informational Privacy, Privacy of the
Home or Personal Autonomy?.—The use of strict scrutiny to re-
view intrusions on personal liberties in Roe v. Wade seemed to por-
tend the Court’s striking down many other governmental re-
straints upon personal activities. These developments have not
occurred, however, as the Court has been relatively cautious in ex-
tending the right to privacy. Part of the reason that the Court may
have been slow to extend the rationale of Roe to other contexts was
that “privacy” or the right “to be let alone” appears to encompass a
number of different concepts arising from different parts of the Con-
stitution, and the same combination of privacy rights and compet-
ing governmental interests are not necessarily implicated in other
types of “private” conduct.
     For instance, the term “privacy” itself seems to encompass at
least two different but related issues. First, it relates to protecting
against disclosure of personal information to the outside world, i.e.,
the right of individuals to determine how much and what informa-
tion about themselves is to be revealed to others.622 Second, it re-
lates inward toward notions of personal autonomy, i.e., the freedom
of individuals to perform or not perform certain acts or subject them-
selves to certain experiences.623 These dual concepts, here referred
to as “informational privacy” and “personal autonomy,” can easily
arise in the same case, as government regulation of personal behav-
ior can limit personal autonomy, while investigating and prosecut-
ing such behavior can expose it to public scrutiny. Unfortunately,
some of the Court’s cases identified violations of a right of privacy
without necessarily making this distinction clear. While the main
thrust of the Court’s fundamental-rights analysis appears to empha-
size the personal autonomy aspect of privacy, now often phrased as
“liberty” interests, a clear analytical framework for parsing of these
two concepts in different contexts has not yet been established.
    621 550 U.S. at 160.
    622 For instance, Justice Douglas’s asked rhetorically in Griswold: “[w]ould we
allow the police to search the sacred precincts of marital bedrooms for telltale signs
of the use of contraceptives? The very idea is repulsive to the notions of privacy
surrounding the marriage relationship.” 381 U.S. at 486.
    623 Whalen v. Roe, 429 U.S. 589, 598–600 (1977).
