is deprived of the power of charging reasonable rates for the use of
its property, and such deprivation takes place in the absence of an
investigation by judicial machinery, it is deprived of the lawful use
of its property, and thus, in substance and effect, of the property
itself, without due process of law. . . .”
     Although the Court made a last-ditch attempt to limit the rul-
ing of Chicago, M. & St. P. Railway v. Minnesota to rates fixed by
a commission as opposed to rates imposed by a legislature,161 the
Court in Reagan v. Farmers’ Loan & Trust Co.162 finally removed
all lingering doubts over the scope of judicial intervention. In Rea-
gan, the Court declared that, “if a carrier . . . attempted to charge
a shipper an unreasonable sum,” the Court, in accordance with com-
mon law principles, would pass on the reasonableness of its rates,
and has “jurisdiction . . . to award the shipper any amount ex-
acted . . . in excess of a reasonable rate . . . . The province of the
courts is not changed, nor the limit of judicial inquiry altered, be-
cause the legislature instead of the carrier prescribes the rates.” 163
Reiterating virtually the same principle in Smyth v. Ames,164 the
Court not only obliterated the distinction between confiscatory and
unreasonable rates but contributed the additional observation that
the requirements of due process are not met unless a court further
determines whether the rate permits the utility to earn a fair re-
turn on a fair valuation of its investment.

    161  Budd v. New York, 143 U.S. 517 (1892).
    162  154 U.S. 362 (1894).
     163 154 U.S. at 397. Insofar as judicial intervention resulting in the invalidation

of legislatively imposed rates has involved carriers, it should be noted that the suc-
cessful complainant invariably has been the carrier, not the shipper.
     164 169 U.S. 466 (1898). Of course the validity of rates prescribed by a State for

services wholly within its limits must be determined wholly without reference to
the interstate business done by a public utility. Domestic business should not be
made to bear the losses on interstate business and vice versa. Thus a state has no
power to require the hauling of logs at a loss or at rates that are unreasonable,
even if a railroad receives adequate revenues from the intrastate long haul and the
interstate lumber haul taken together. On the other hand, in determining whether
intrastate passenger railway rates are confiscatory, all parts of the system within
the state (including sleeping, parlor, and dining cars) should be embraced in the
computation, and the unremunerative parts should not be excluded because built
primarily for interstate traffic or not required to supply local transportation needs.
See Minnesota Rate Cases (Simpson v. Shepard), 230 U.S. 352, 434–35 (1913); Chi-
cago, M. & St. P. Ry. v. Public Util. Comm’n, 274 U.S. 344 (1927); Groesbeck v. Duluth,
S.S. & A. Ry., 250 U.S. 607 (1919). The maxim that a legislature cannot delegate
legislative power is qualified to permit creation of administrative boards to apply to
the myriad details of rate schedules the regulatory police power of the state. To pre-
vent a holding of invalid delegation of legislative power, the legislature must con-
strain the board with a certain course of procedure and certain rules of decision in
the performance of its functions, with which the agency must substantially comply
to validate its action. Wichita R.R. v. Public Util. Comm’n, 260 U.S. 48 (1922).
