ent results on closely related fact patterns, making predictability
quite difficult but perhaps manageable.1854
     The Court’s difficulty in arriving at predictable results has ex-
tended outside the area of descent of property. Thus, a Texas child
support law affording legitimate children a right to judicial action
to obtain support from their fathers while not affording the right
to illegitimate children denied the latter equal protection. “[A] State
may not invidiously discriminate against illegitimate children by de-
nying them substantial benefits accorded children generally. We there-
fore hold that once a State posits a judicially enforceable right on
behalf of children to needed support from their natural fathers there
is no constitutionally sufficient justification for denying such an es-
sential right to a child simply because its natural father has not
married its mother.” 1855
    Similarly, the Court struck down a federal Social Security pro-
vision that made eligible for benefits, because of an insured par-
ent’s disability, all legitimate children as well as those illegitimate
children capable of inheriting personal property under state intes-
tacy law and those children who were illegitimate only because of
a nonobvious defect in their parents’ marriage, regardless of whether
they were born after the onset of the disability, but that made all
     1854 Illustrating the difficulty are two cases in which the fathers of illegitimate

children challenged statutes treating them differently than mothers of such chil-
dren were treated. In Parham v. Hughes, 441 U.S. 347 (1979), the majority viewed
the distinction as a gender-based one rather than as an illegitimacy classification
and sustained a bar to a wrongful death action by the father of an illegitimate child
who had not legitimated him; in Caban v. Mohammed, 441 U.S. 380 (1980), again
viewing the distinction as a gender-based one, the majority voided a state law per-
mitting the mother but not the father of an illegitimate child to block his adoption
by refusing to consent. Both decisions were 5-to-4.
     1855 Gomez v. Perez, 409 U.S. 535, 538 (1978) (emphasis added). Following the

decision, Texas authorized illegitimate children to obtain support from their fathers.
But the legislature required as a first step that paternity must be judicially deter-
mined, and imposed a limitations period within which suit must be brought of one
year from birth of the child. If suit is not brought within that period the child could
never obtain support at any age from his father. No limitation was imposed on the
opportunity of a natural child to seek support, up to age 18. In Mills v. Habluetzel,
456 U.S. 91 (1982), the Court invalidated the one-year limitation. Although a state
has an interest in avoiding stale or fraudulent claims, the limit must not be so brief
as to deny such children a reasonable opportunity to show paternity. Similarly, a
2-year statute of limitations on paternity and support actions was held to deny equal
protection to illegitimates in Pickett v. Brown, 462 U.S. 1 (1983), and a 6-year limit
was struck down in Clark v. Jeter, 486 U.S. 456 (1988). In both cases the Court
pointed to the fact that increasingly sophisticated genetic tests are minimizing the
“lurking problems with respect to proof of paternity” referred to in Gomez, 409 U.S.
at 538. Also, the state’s interest in imposing the 2-year limit was undercut by excep-
tions (e.g., for illegitimates receiving public assistance), and by different treatment
for minors generally; similarly, the importance of imposing a 6-year limit was belied
by that state’s more recent enactment of a non-retroactive 18-year limit for pater-
nity and support actions.
