limited authority. Thus, a British machinery manufacturer who tar-
geted the U.S. market generally through engaging a nationwide dis-
tributor and attending trade shows, among other means, could not
be sued in New Jersey for an industrial accident that occurred in
the state. Even though at least one of its machines (and perhaps
as many as four) were sold to New Jersey concerns, the defendant
had not purposefully targeted the New Jersey market through, for
example, establishing an office, advertising, or sending employ-
ees.904 Writing in dissent for herself and two other Justices, Justice
Ginsburg concluded that it was reasonable and fair, and therefore
consistent with due process requirements, for New Jersey to claim
jurisdiction to adjudicate the case locally because the defendant manu-
facturer had promoted its products in the United States and estab-
lished a national distribution system. “On what sensible view of the
allocation of adjudicatory authority,” the dissent rhetorically asked,
“could the place of [the plaintiff ’s] injury within the United States
be deemed off limits for his products liability claim against a for-
eign manufacturer who targeted the United States (including all the
States that constitute the Nation) as the territory it sought to de-
velop?” 905 Concurring with the plurality, Justice Breyer empha-
sized the outcome lay in stream-of-commerce precedents that held
isolated or infrequent sales could not support jurisdiction. At the
same time, Justice Breyer cautioned against adoption of the plurali-
ty’s strict active availment of the forum rule, especially because the
Court had yet to consider due process requirements in the context
of evolving business models, modern e-commerce in particular.906
     Actions In Rem: Proceeding Against Property.—In an in rem
action, which is an action brought directly against a property inter-
est, a state can validly proceed to settle controversies with regard
to rights or claims against tangible or intangible property within
its borders, notwithstanding that jurisdiction over the defendant was
never established.907 Unlike jurisdiction in personam, a judgment
entered by a court with in rem jurisdiction does not bind the defen-
dant personally but determines the title to or status of the only prop-

    904  564 U.S. ___, No. 09–1343, slip op. (2011) (Kennedy, Roberts, Scalia and Thomas).
    905  564 U.S. ___, No. 09–1343, slip op. at 6–7 (2011) (Ginsburg, Sotomayor and
Kagan dissenting).
     906 564 U.S. ___, No. 09–1343, slip op. (2011) (Breyer and Alito concurring).
     907 Accordingly, by reason of its inherent authority over titles to land within its

territorial confines, a state court could proceed to judgment respecting the owner-
ship of such property, even though it lacked a constitutional competence to reach
claimants of title who resided beyond its borders. Arndt v. Griggs, 134 U.S. 316, 321
(1890); Grannis v. Ordean, 234 U.S. 385 (1914); Pennington v. Fourth Nat’l Bank,
243 U.S. 269, 271 (1917).
