choice of electors for President and Vice President of the United
States, Representatives in Congress, the Executive and Judicial
officers of a State, or the members of the Legislature thereof, is
denied to any of the male inhabitants of such State, being twenty-
one years of age, and citizens of the United States, or in any
way abridged, except for participation in rebellion, or other crime,
the basis of representation therein shall be reduced in the pro-
portion which the number of such male citizens shall bear to
the whole number of male citizens twenty-one years of age in
such State.

                     APPORTIONMENT OF REPRESENTATION
            With the abolition of slavery by the Thirteenth Amendment,
        African-Americans, who formerly counted as three-fifths of a per-
        son, would be fully counted in the apportionment of seats in the
        House of Representatives, increasing as well the electoral vote, and
        there appeared the prospect that the readmitted Southern states
        would gain a political advantage in Congress when combined with
        Democrats from the North. Because the South was adamantly op-
        posed to African-American suffrage, all the congressmen would be
        elected by whites. Many wished to provide for the enfranchisement
        of African-Americans and proposals to this effect were voted on in
        both the House and the Senate, but only a few Northern states per-
        mitted African-Americans to vote and a series of referenda on the
        question in Northern States revealed substantial white hostility to
        the proposal. Therefore, a compromise was worked out, to effect a
        reduction in the representation of any state that discriminated against
        males in the franchise.2065
            No serious effort was ever made in Congress to effectuate ยง 2,
        and the only judicial attempt was rebuffed.2066 With subsequent con-
        stitutional amendments adopted and the use of federal coercive pow-
        ers to enfranchise persons, the section is little more than an histori-
        cal curiosity.2067
            2065  See generally J. JAMES, THE FRAMING OF THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT (1956).
            2066  Saunders v. Wilkins, 152 F.2d 235 (4th Cir. 1945), cert. denied, 328 U.S.
        870 (1946).
             2067 The section did furnish a basis to Justice Harlan to argue that inasmuch as

        ยง 2 recognized a privilege to discriminate subject only to the penalty provided, the
        Court was in error in applying ยง 1 to questions relating to the franchise. Compare
        Oregon v. Mitchell, 400 U.S. 112, 152 (1970) (Justice Harlan concurring and dissent-
