    Three years later, however, the Court invoked principles of stare
decisis to reaffirm Roe’s “essential holding,” although it had by now
abandoned the trimester approach and adopted Justice O’Connor’s
“undue burden” test and Roe’s “essential holding.” 600 According to
the Court in Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania v.
Casey,601 the right to abortion has three parts. “First is a recogni-
tion of the right of a woman to choose to have an abortion before
viability and to obtain it without undue interference from the State.
Before viability, the State’s interests are not strong enough to sup-
port a prohibition of abortion or the imposition of a substantial ob-
stacle to the woman’s effective right to elect the procedure. Second
is a confirmation of the State’s power to restrict abortions after fe-
tal viability, if the law contains exceptions for pregnancies which
endanger a woman’s life or health. And third is the principle that
the State has legitimate interests from the outset of the pregnancy
in protecting the health of the woman and the life of the fetus that
may become a child.”
     This restatement of Roe’s essentials, recognizing a legitimate state
interest in protecting fetal life throughout pregnancy, necessarily
eliminated the rigid trimester analysis permitting almost no regu-
lation in the first trimester. Viability, however, still marked “the ear-
liest point at which the State’s interest in fetal life is constitution-
ally adequate to justify a legislative ban on nontherapeutic
abortions,” 602 but less burdensome regulations could be applied be-
fore viability. “What is at stake,” the three-Justice plurality as-
serted, “is the woman’s right to make the ultimate decision, not a
right to be insulated from all others in doing so. Regulations which
do no more than create a structural mechanism by which the State
. . . may express profound respect for the life of the unborn are per-
mitted, if they are not a substantial obstacle to the woman’s exer-
cise of the right to choose.” Thus, unless an undue burden is im-

     600 It was a new alignment of Justices that restated and preserved Roe. Joining

Justice O’Connor in a jointly authored opinion adopting and applying Justice O’Connor’s
“undue burden” analysis were Justices Kennedy and Souter. Justices Blackmun and
Stevens joined parts of the plurality opinion, but dissented from other parts. Justice
Stevens would not have abandoned trimester analysis, and would have invalidated
the 24-hour waiting period and aspects of the informed consent requirement. Jus-
tice Blackmun, author of the Court’s opinion in Roe, asserted that “the right to re-
productive choice is entitled to the full protection afforded by this Court before Webster,”
id. at 923, and would have invalidated all of the challenged provisions. Chief Jus-
tice Rehnquist, joined by Justices White, Scalia, and Thomas, would have overruled
Roe and upheld all challenged aspects of the Pennsylvania law.
     601 505 U.S. 833, 846 (1992).
     602 505 U.S. 833, 860 (1992).
