reasonable alternative means of ballot access, the Court held, a state
may not disqualify an indigent candidate unable to pay filing fees.1891
    In Clements v. Fashing,1892 the Court sustained two provisions
of state law, one that barred certain officeholders from seeking elec-
tion to the legislature during the term of office for which they had
been elected or appointed, but that did not reach other officehold-
ers whose terms of office expired with the legislators’ terms and did
not bar legislators from seeking other offices during their terms, and
the other that automatically terminated the terms of certain office-
holders who announced for election to other offices, but that did not
apply to other officeholders who could run for another office while
continuing to serve. The Court was splintered in such a way, how-
ever, that it is not possible to derive a principle from the decision
applicable to other fact situations.
    In Williams v. Rhodes,1893 a complex statutory structure that
had the effect of keeping off the ballot all but the candidates of the
two major parties was struck down under the strict test because it
deprived the voters of the opportunity of voting for independent and
third-party candidates and because it seriously impeded the exer-
cise of the right to associate for political purposes. Similarly, a re-
quirement that an independent candidate for office in order to ob-
tain a ballot position must obtain 25,000 signatures, including 200
signatures from each of at least 50 of the state’s 102 counties, was
held to discriminate against the political rights of the inhabitants
of the most populous counties, when it was shown that 93.4% of

     1891 Concurring, Justices Blackmun and Rehnquist suggested that a reasonable

alternative would be to permit indigents to seek write-in votes without paying a
filing fee, 415 U.S. at 722, but the Court indicated this would be inadequate. Id. at
719 n.5.
     1892 457 U.S. 957 (1982). A plurality of four contended that save in two circum-

stances—ballot access classifications based on wealth and ballot access classifica-
tions imposing burdens on new or small political parties or independent candidates—
limitations on candidate access to the ballot merit only traditional rational basis
scrutiny, because candidacy is not a fundamental right. The plurality found both
classifications met the standard. Id. at 962–73 (Justices Rehnquist, Powell, O’Connor,
and Chief Justice Burger). Justice Stevens concurred, rejecting the plurality’s stan-
dard, but finding that inasmuch as the disparate treatment was based solely on the
state’s classification of the different offices involved, and not on the characteristics
of the persons who occupy them or seek them, the action did not violate the Equal
Protection Clause. Id. at 973. The dissent primarily focused on the First Amend-
ment but asserted that the classifications failed even a rational basis test. Id. at
976 (Justices Brennan, White, Marshall, and Blackmun).
     1893 393 U.S. 23 (1968). “[T]he totality of the Ohio restrictive laws taken as a

whole imposes a burden on voting and associational rights which we hold is an in-
vidious discrimination, in violation of the Equal Protection Clause.” Id. at 34. Jus-
tices Douglas and Harlan would have relied solely on the First Amendment, id. at
35, 41, and Justices Stewart and White and Chief Justice Warren dissented. Id. at
48, 61, 63.
