    On a few occasions the Court has considered whether rights ac-
corded to adults during investigation of crime are to be accorded
juveniles. In one such case the Court ruled that a juvenile undergo-
ing custodial interrogation by police had not invoked a Miranda right
to remain silent by requesting permission to consult with his proba-
tion officer, since a probation officer could not be equated with an
attorney, but indicated as well that a juvenile’s waiver of Miranda
rights was to be evaluated under the same totality-of-the-
circumstances approach applicable to adults. That approach “permits—
indeed it mandates—inquiry into all the circumstances surround-
ing the interrogation . . . includ[ing] evaluation of the juvenile’s age,
experience, education, background, and intelligence, and into whether
he has the capacity to understand the warnings given him . . . .” 1249
In another case the Court ruled that, although the Fourth Amend-
ment applies to searches of students by public school authorities,
neither the warrant requirement nor the probable cause standard
is appropriate.1250 Instead, a simple reasonableness standard gov-
erns all searches of students’ persons and effects by school authori-
ties.1251
    The Court ruled in Schall v. Martin 1252 that preventive deten-
tion of juveniles does not offend due process when it serves the le-
gitimate state purpose of protecting society and the juvenile from
potential consequences of pretrial crime, when the terms of confine-
ment serve those legitimate purposes and are nonpunitive, and when
procedures provide sufficient protection against erroneous and un-
necessary detentions. A statute authorizing pretrial detention of ac-
cused juvenile delinquents on a finding of “serious risk” that the
juvenile would commit crimes prior to trial, providing for expedited
hearings (the maximum possible detention was 17 days), and guar-

jury would. Id. at 553. Justice Harlan concurred because he did not believe jury
trials were constitutionally mandated in state courts. Id. at 557. Justices Douglas,
Black, and Marshall dissented. Id. at 557.
     1249 Fare v. Michael C., 442 U.S. 707, 725 (1979).
     1250 New Jersey v. T.L.O., 469 U.S. 325 (1985) (upholding the search of a stu-

dent’s purse to determine whether the student possessed cigarettes in violation of
school rule; evidence of drug activity held admissible in a prosecution under the ju-
venile laws). In Safford Unified School District #1 v. Redding, 557 U.S. ___, No. 08–
479 (2009), the Court found unreasonable a strip search of a 13-year-old girl sus-
pected of possessing ibuprofen. See Fourth Amendment, “Public Schools,” supra.
     1251 This single rule, the Court explained, will permit school authorities “to regu-

late their conduct according to the dictates of reason and common sense.” 469 U.S.
at 343. Rejecting the suggestion of dissenting Justice Stevens, the Court was “unwill-
ing to adopt a standard under which the legality of a search is dependent upon a
judge’s evaluation of the relative importance of various school rules.” 469 U.S. at
342 n.9.
     1252 467 U.S. 253 (1984).
