cupations. In such cases the legislature, in authorizing the tax, fixes
its amount, and that is the end of the matter. If the tax be not
paid, the property of the delinquent may be sold, and he be thus
deprived of his property. Yet there can be no question, that the pro-
ceeding is due process of law, as there is no inquiry into the weight
of evidence, or other element of a judicial nature, and nothing could
be changed by hearing the tax-payer. No right of his is, therefore,
invaded. Thus, if the tax on animals be a fixed sum per head, or on
articles a fixed sum per yard, or bushel, or gallon, there is nothing
the owner can do which can affect the amount to be collected from
him. So, if a person wishes a license to do business of a particular
kind, or at a particular place, such as keeping a hotel or a restau-
rant, or selling liquors, or cigars, or clothes, he has only to pay the
amount required by law and go into the business. There is no need
in such cases for notice or hearing. So, also, if taxes are imposed in
the shape of licenses for privileges, such as those on foreign corpo-
rations for doing business in the state, or on domestic corporations
for franchises, if the parties desire the privilege, they have only to
pay the amount required. In such cases there is no necessity for
notice or hearing. The amount of the tax would not be changed by
it.” 496
      Notice and Hearing in Relation to Assessments.—“But where
a tax is levied on property not specifically, but according to its value,
to be ascertained by assessors appointed for that purpose upon such
evidence as they may obtain, a different principle comes in. The of-
ficers in estimating the value act judicially; and in most of the States
provision is made for the correction of errors committed by them,
through boards of revision or equalization, sitting at designated pe-
riods provided by law to hear complaints respecting the justice of
the assessments. The law in prescribing the time when such com-
plaints will be heard, gives all the notice required, and the proceed-
ings by which the valuation is determined, though it may be fol-
lowed, if the tax be not paid, by a sale of the delinquent’s property,
is due process of law.” 497
      Nevertheless, it has never been considered necessary to the va-
lidity of a tax that the party charged shall have been present, or
had an opportunity to be present, in some tribunal when he was
assessed.498 Where a tax board has its time of sitting fixed by law
and where its sessions are not secret, no obstacle prevents the ap-
pearance of any one before it to assert a right or redress a wrong
and in the business of assessing taxes, this is all that can be rea-
   496 Hagar v. Reclamation Dist., 111 U.S. 701, 709–10 (1884).
   497 111 U.S. at 710.
   498 McMillen v. Anderson, 95 U.S. 37, 42 (1877).
