New York statute fixing fluid milk prices. “Price control, like any
other form of regulation, is unconstitutional only if arbitrary, dis-
criminatory, or demonstrably irrelevant to the policy the legisla-
ture is free to adopt, and hence an unnecessary and unwarranted
interference with individual liberty.” 153 Conceding that “the dairy
industry is not, in the accepted sense of the phrase, a public util-
ity,” that is, a business “affected with a public interest”, the Court
in effect declared that price control is to be viewed merely as an
exercise by the government of its police power, and as such is sub-
ject only to the restrictions that due process imposes on arbitrary
interference with liberty and property. “The due process clause makes
no mention of sales or of prices. . . .” 154
     Having thus concluded that it is no longer the nature of the
business that determines the validity of a price regulation, the Court
had little difficulty in upholding a state law prescribing the maxi-
mum commission that private employment agencies may charge. Re-
jecting contentions that the need for such protective legislation had
not been shown, the Court, in Olsen v. Nebraska ex rel. Western Ref-
erence and Bond Ass’n 155 held that differences of opinion as to the
wisdom, need, or appropriateness of the legislation “suggest a choice
which should be left to the States;” and that there was “no neces-
sity for the State to demonstrate before us that evils persist de-
spite the competition” between public, charitable, and private em-
ployment agencies.156

that buyers or sellers are placed at such a disadvantage in the bargaining struggle
that a legislature might reasonably anticipate serious consequences to the commu-
nity as a whole.” In his dissenting opinion in New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, 285
U.S. 262, 302–03 (1932), Justice Brandeis had also observed: “The notion of a dis-
tinct category of business ‘affected with a public interest’ employing property ‘de-
voted to a public use,’ rests upon historical error. . . . In my opinion, the true prin-
ciple is that the State’s power extends to every regulation of any business reasonably
required and appropriate for the public protection. I find in the due process clause
no other limitation upon the character or the scope of regulation permissible.”
     153 291 U.S. at 502. Older decisions overturning price regulation were now viewed

as resting upon this basis, i.e., that due process was violated because the laws were
arbitrary in their operation and effect.
     154 291 U.S. at 531, 532. Justice McReynolds, dissenting, labeled the controls

imposed by the challenged statute as a “fanciful scheme . . . to protect the farmer
against undue exactions by prescribing the price at which milk disposed of by him
at will may be resold!” 291 U.S. at 558. Intimating that the New York statute was
as efficacious as a safety regulation that required “householders to pour oil on their
roofs as a means of curbing the spread of fire when discovered in the neighbor-
hood,” Justice McReynolds insisted that “this Court must have regard to the wis-
dom of the enactment,” and must “decide whether the means proposed have reason-
able relation to something within legislative power.” 291 U.S. at 556.
     155 313 U.S. 236, 246 (1941).
     156 The older case of Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U.S. 350 (1928), which had invali-

dated similar legislation upon the now obsolete concept of a “business affected with
a public interest,” was expressly overruled. Adams v. Tanner, 244 U.S. 590 (1917),
