                          RIGHTS GUARANTEED


                      FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT

    SECTION 1. All persons born or naturalized in the United States,
and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United
States and the State wherein they reside. No State shall make
or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immu-
nities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State de-
prive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due pro-
cess of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws.
               THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT AND STATES’
                                       RIGHTS
            Amendment of the Constitution during the post-Civil War Re-
        construction period resulted in a fundamental shift in the relation-
        ship between the Federal Government and the states. The Civil War
        had been fought over issues of states’ rights, particularly the right
        to control the institution of slavery.1 In the wake of the war, the
        Congress submitted, and the states ratified the Thirteenth Amend-
        ment (making slavery illegal), the Fourteenth Amendment (defin-
        ing and granting broad rights of national citizenship), and the Fif-
        teenth Amendment (forbidding racial discrimination in elections).
        The Fourteenth Amendment was the most controversial and far-
        reaching of these three “Reconstruction Amendments.”

                      CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES
            The citizenship provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment may
        be seen as a repudiation of one of the more politically divisive cases
        of the nineteenth century. Under common law, free persons born
        within a state or nation were citizens thereof. In the Dred Scott
        case,2 however, Chief Justice Taney, writing for the Court, ruled that
             1 “Since the 1950s most professional historians have come to agree with Lin-

        coln’s assertion that slavery ‘was, somehow, the cause of the war.’ ” James M. McPherson,
        Southern Comfort, THE NEW YORK REVIEW OF BOOKS (Apr. 12, 2001), quoting Lincoln’s
        second inaugural address.
             2 Scott v. Sandford, 60 U.S. (19 How.) 393 (1857). The controversy, political as

        well as constitutional, that this case stirred and still stirs is exemplified and ana-
        lyzed in the material collected in S. KUTLER, THE DRED SCOTT DECISION: LAW OR POLI-
