                         PRESIDENTIAL TENURE


                    TWENTY-SECOND AMENDMENT

    SECTIONS 1 AND 2. No person shall be elected to the office of
the President more than twice, and no person who has held the
office of President, or acted as President, for more than two years
of a term to which some other person was elected President shall
be elected to the office of the President more than once. But this
Article shall not apply to any person holding the office of Presi-
dent when this Article was proposed by Congress, and shall not
prevent any person who may be holding the office of President,
or acting as President, during the term within which this Ar-
ticle becomes operative from holding the office of President or
acting as President during the remainder of such term.
     This Article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been
ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legisla-
tures of three-fourths of the several States within seven years
from the date of its submission to the States by the Congress.

                     LIMITATION OF PRESIDENTIAL TERMS
             “By reason of the lack of a positive expression upon the subject
        of the tenure of the office of President, and by reason of a well-
        defined custom which has risen in the past that no President should
        have more than two terms in that office, much discussion has re-
        sulted upon this subject. Hence it is the purpose of this . . . [pro-
        posal] . . . to submit this question to the people so they, by and
        through the recognized processes, may express their views upon this
        question, and if they shall so elect, they may . . . thereby set at
        rest this problem.” 1 This characterization of the issue, of course,
        followed soon after the people had expressed their views by elect-
        ing Franklin D. Roosevelt to unprecedented third and fourth terms
        of office, in 1940 and 1944, respectively.
           1   H.R. REP. NO. 17, 80th Cong., 1st Sess. at 2 (1947).
