out even considering that Amendment, a majority of the Court up-
held, as not contravening the Commerce Clause, statutes regulat-
ing the transport through the state of liquor cargoes originating and
ending outside the regulating state’s boundaries.20
     Regulation of Imports Destined for a Federal Area.—
Importation of alcoholic beverages into a state for ultimate deliv-
ery at a National Park located in the state but over which the United
States retained exclusive jurisdiction has been construed as not con-
stituting “transportation . . . into [a] State for delivery and use therein”
within the meaning of § 2 of the Amendment. The importation hav-
ing had as its objective delivery and use in a federal area over which
the state retained no jurisdiction, the increased powers that the state
acquired from the Twenty-first Amendment were declared to be in-
applicable. California therefore could not extend the importation li-
cense and other regulatory requirements of its Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act to a retail liquor dealer doing business in the Park.21
On the other hand, a state may apply nondiscriminatory liquor regu-
lations to sales at federal enclaves under concurrent federal and
state jurisdiction, and may require that liquor sold at such federal
enclaves be labeled as being restricted for use only within the en-
clave.22
     Foreign Imports, Exports; Taxation, Regulation.—The Twenty-
first Amendment did not repeal the Export-Import Clause, Art. I,
§ 10, cl. 2, nor obliterate the Commerce Clause, Art. I, § 8, cl. 3.
Accordingly, a state cannot tax imported liquor while it remains “in
unbroken packages in the hands of the original importer and prior

     20 Arkansas required a permit for the transportation of liquor across its terri-

tory, but granted the same upon application and payment of a nominal fee. Virginia
required carriers engaged in similar through-shipments to use the most direct route,
carry a bill of lading describing that route, and post a $1,000 bond conditioned on
lawful transportation; and also stipulated that the true consignee be named in the
bill of lading and be one having the legal right to receive the shipment at destina-
tion.
     21 Collins v. Yosemite Park Co., 304 U.S. 518, 537–38 (1938). The principle was

reaffirmed in United States v. Mississippi Tax Comm’n, 412 U.S. 363 (1973), holding
that Mississippi could not apply its tax regulations to liquor sold to military officers’
clubs and other nonappropriated fund activities located on bases within the State
and over which the United States had obtained exclusive jurisdiction. “[A]bsent an
appropriate express reservation . . . the Twenty-first Amendment confers no power
on a State to regulate –whether by licensing, taxation, or otherwise—the importa-
tion of distilled spirits into territory over which the United States exercises exclu-
sive jurisdiction.” Id. at 375. Nor may states tax importation of liquor for sale at
bases over which the United States exercises concurrent jurisdiction only. United
States v. Mississippi Tax Comm’n, 421 U.S. 599 (1975).
     22 North Dakota v. United States, 495 U.S. 423 (1990) (also upholding applica-

tion to federal enclaves of a uniform requirement that shipments into the state be
reported to state officials).
