                CONGRESSIONAL PAY LIMITATION


                  TWENTY-SEVENTH AMENDMENT
    No law, varying the compensation for the services of the Sena-
tors and Representatives, shall take effect, until an election of
Representatives shall have intervened.
                      REGULATING CONGRESSIONAL PAY
             Referred to the state legislatures at the same time as those pro-
        posals that eventually became the Bill of Rights, the congressional
        pay amendment had long been assumed to be dead.1 This provision
        had its genesis, as did several others of the first amendments, in
        the petitions of the states ratifying the Constitution.2 It was rati-
        fied, however, by only six states (of the eleven needed), and it was
        rejected by five states. Aside from the idiosyncratic action of the
        Ohio legislature in 1873, which ratified the proposal in protest of a
        controversial pay increase adopted by Congress, the pay limitation
        provision lay dormant until the 1980s. Then, an aide to a Texas
        legislator discovered the proposal and began a crusade that culmi-
        nated some ten years later in its ratification.3
             Now that the provision is a part of the Constitution,4 it will
        likely play a minor role. What it commands was already statutorily
        prescribed, and, at most, it may have implications for automatic cost-
        of-living increases in pay for Members of Congress.5

             1 Indeed, in Dillon v. Gloss, 256 U.S. 368, 375 (1921), the Court, albeit in dic-

        tum, observed that, unless the inference was drawn that ratification must occur within
        some reasonable time of proposal, “four amendments proposed long ago—two in 1789,
        one in 1810 and one in 1861—are still pending and in a situation where their ratifi-
        cation in some of the States many years since by representatives of generations now
        largely forgotten may be effectively supplemented in enough more States to make
        three-fourths by representatives of the present or some future generation. To that
        view few would be able to subscribe, and in our opinion it is quite untenable.” (Em-
        phasis supplied).
             2 A comprehensive, scholarly treatment of the background, development, fail-

        ure, and subsequent success of this amendment is Bernstein, The Sleeper Wakes:
        The History and Legacy of the Twenty-Seventh Amendment, 61 FORD. L. REV. 497 (1992).
        A briefer account is The Congressional Pay Amendment, 16 Ops. of the Office of Le-
        gal Counsel, U.S. Dept. of Justice 102, App. at 127–136 (1992) (prelim. pr.).
             3 The ratification issues are considered in the discussion of Article V, supra.
             4 In the only case to date brought under the Amendment, the parties did not

        raise the question of the validity of its ratification; the court refused to consider the
        issue raised by an amicus. Boehner v. Anderson, 809 F.Supp. 138, 139 (D.D.C. 1992).
        It is not at all clear the issue is justiciable.
             5 See discussion of “Congressional Pay,” supra.
