the primary rights being adjudicated were legal in character. Thus,
the rule that emerged was that legal claims must be tried before
equitable ones and before a jury if the litigant so wished.47
     In Ross v. Bernhard,48 the Court further held that the right to
a jury trial depends on the nature of the issue to be tried rather
than the procedural framework in which it is raised. The case in-
volved a stockholder derivative action,49 which has always been con-
sidered to be a suit in equity. The Court agreed that the action was
equitable but asserted that it involved two separable claims. The
first, the stockholder’s standing to sue for a corporation, is an equi-
table issue; the second, the corporation’s claim asserted by the stock-
holder, may be either equitable or legal. Because the 1938 merger
of law and equity in the federal courts eliminated any procedural
obstacles to transferring jurisdiction to the law side once the equi-
table issue of standing was decided, the Court continued, if the cor-
poration’s claim being asserted by the stockholder was legal in na-
ture, it should be heard on the law side and before a jury.50 Whether
this analysis will be followed in other areas so that the right to a
jury trial extends to all legal issues in actions formerly within equi-
ty’s concurrent jurisdiction is a question now open.51
   Procedures Limiting Jury’s Role.—As noted above, the pri-
mary purpose of the Seventh Amendment was to preserve the his-
     47 If legal and equitable claims are joined, and the court erroneously dismisses

the legal claims and decides common issues in the equitable action, the plaintiff can-
not be collaterally estopped from relitigating those common issues in a jury trial.
Lytle v. Household Manufacturing, Inc., 494 U.S. 545 (1990).
     48 396 U.S. 531 (1970).
     49 The stockholders’ derivative action is a creation of equity made necessary by

the traditional concept of “the corporate entity” or the “concept of separate personal-
ity.” That is, the corporation is an entity distinct and separate from its sharehold-
ers. Thus, while shareholders were relieved from unlimited liability for corporate
liabilities, the complementary result was that harm to the corporation did not con-
fer any right of action upon a shareholder to sue to right that harm. But if the
harm were caused by the abuse of those who managed and controlled the corpora-
tion, the corporation naturally would not proceed against them and the common law
courts would not allow the shareholders to bring an action running to the “separate
personality” of the corporation; equity thus permitted a derivative action in which
the shareholder is permitted to set in motion the adjudication of a cause of action
belonging to the corporation. Prunty, The Shareholders’ Derivative Suit: Notes on Its
Derivation, 32 N.Y.U. L. REV. 980 (1957).
     50 Justices Stewart and Harlan and Chief Justice Burger dissented, arguing that

the Seventh Amendment did not expand the right to a jury trial, that the Rules
simply preserved the right as it had existed, and that it was error to think that the
two could somehow “magically interact” to enlarge the right in a way that neither
did alone. Ross v. Bernhard, 396 U.S. 531, 543 (1970).
     51 Among the possibilities in which a legal right was enforceable in equity in

the absence of an adequate remedy at law are suits to compel specific performance
of a contract, suits for cancellation of a contract, and suits to enjoin tortious action.
On Ross’ implications, see J. MOORE, FEDERAL PRACTICE §§ 38.11[8.–8], 38.11[9] (2d ed.
1971).
