remedy of the type that could be imposed only by courts of law.37
However, a jury need not invariably determine the remedy in a trial
in which it must determine liability. Because the Court viewed as-
sessment of the amount of penalty as involving neither the “sub-
stance” nor a “fundamental element” of a common-law right to trial
by jury, it held permissible the Act’s assignment of that task to the
trial judge.
     Later, the Court relied on a broadened concept of “public rights”
to define the limits of congressional power to assign causes of ac-
tion to tribunals in which jury trials are unavailable. In
Granfinanciera, S.A. v. Nordberg,38 the Court declared that Con-
gress “lacks the power to strip parties contesting matters of pri-
vate right of their constitutional right to a trial by jury.” The Sev-
enth Amendment test, the Court indicated, is the same as the Article
III test for whether Congress may assign adjudication of a claim to
a non-Article III tribunal.39 As a general matter, “public rights” in-
volve “ ‘the relationship between the government and persons sub-
ject to its authority,’ ” whereas “private rights” relate to “ ‘the liabil-
ity of one individual to another.’ ” 40 Although finding room for “some
debate,” the Court determined that a bankruptcy trustee’s right to
recover for a fraudulent conveyance “is more accurately character-



     37 The statute itself specified only a maximum amount for the penalty; the Court

derived its “punitive” characterization from indications in the legislative history that
Congress desired consideration of the need for retribution and deterrence as well as
the need for restitution.
     38 492 U.S. 33, 51–52 (1989).
     39 “[I]f a statutory cause of action . . . is not a ‘public right’ for Article III pur-

poses, then Congress may not assign its adjudication to a specialized non-Article III
court lacking ‘the essential attributes of the judicial power.’ And if the action must
be tried under the auspices of an Article III court, then the Seventh Amendment
affords the parties the right to a jury trial whenever the cause of action is legal in
nature. Conversely, if Congress may assign the adjudication of a statutory cause of
action to a non-Article III tribunal, then the Seventh Amendment poses no indepen-
dent bar to the adjudication of that action by a nonjury factfinder.” 492 U.S. at 53–54
(citation omitted).
     40 492 U.S. at 51 n.8 (quoting Crowell v. Benson, 285 U.S. 22, 50, 51 (1932)).

The Court qualified certain statements in Atlas Roofing and in the process refined
its definition of “public rights.” There are some “public rights” cases, the Court ex-
plained, in which “the Federal Government is not a party in its sovereign capacity,”
but which involve “statutory rights that are integral parts of a public regulatory
scheme.” It is in cases of this nature that Congress may “dispense with juries as
factfinders through its choice of an adjudicative forum.” This does not mean, how-
ever, that Congress may assign “at least the initial factfinding in all cases involving
controversies entirely between private parties to administrative tribunals or other
tribunals not involving juries, so long as they are established as adjuncts to Article
III courts.” 492 U.S. at 55 n.10 (emphasis added).
