                       SUITS AGAINST STATES


                      ELEVENTH AMENDMENT
    The Judicial power of the United States shall not be con-
strued to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or pros-
ecuted against one of the United States by Citizens of another
State, or by Citizens or Subjects of any Foreign State.
                           STATE SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY

       Purpose and Early Interpretation
            Though Eleventh Amendment jurisprudence can appear eso-
       teric and abstruse and the decisions under it inconsistent, the Amend-
       ment remains a vital element of federal jurisdiction that “go[es] to
       the very heart of [the] federal system and affect[s] the allocation of
       power between the United States and the several states.” 1 The limit
       on state accountability in federal courts embodied through the Amend-
       ment might seem a discrete, straightforward adjustment of our fed-
       eral structure precipitated by early case law, but discerning the im-
       plications of this embodiment continues to occasion heated dispute.
            In accepting a suit against a state by a citizen of another state
       in 1793,2 the Supreme Court provoked such anger in Georgia and
       such anxiety in other states that, at the first meeting of Congress
       following the decision, the Eleventh Amendment was proposed by
       an overwhelming vote of both Houses and ratified with, what was
       for that day, “vehement speed.” 3 Chisholm had been brought under
       that part of the jurisdictional provision of Article III that autho-
       rized cognizance of “controversies . . . between a State and Citi-
       zens of another State.” At the time of the ratification debates, oppo-
       nents of the proposed Constitution had objected to the subjection of
       a state to suits in federal courts and had been met with conflicting
       responses—on the one hand, an admission that the accusation was
       true and that it was entirely proper so to provide, and, on the other
       hand, that the accusation was false and the clause applied only when
           1  C. WRIGHT, THE LAW OF FEDERAL COURTS § 48 at 286 (4th ed. 1983).
           2  Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 U.S. (2 Dall.) 419 (1793).
            3 The phrase is Justice Frankfurter’s, from Larson v. Domestic & Foreign Com-

       merce Corp., 337 U.S. 682, 708 (1949) (dissenting), a federal sovereign immunity
       case. The amendment was proposed on March 4, 1794, when it passed the House;
       ratification occurred on February 7, 1795, when the twelfth state acted, there then
       being fifteen states in the Union.
