ginia,10 Chief Justice Marshall ruled for the Court that the pros-
ecution of a writ of error to review a judgment of a state court
alleged to be in violation of the Constitution or laws of the
United States did not commence or prosecute a suit against the
state but was simply a continuation of one commenced by the
state, and thus could be brought under § 25 of the Judiciary Act
of 1789.11 But, in the course of the opinion, the Chief Justice at-
tributed adoption of the Eleventh Amendment not to objections
to subjecting states to suits per se but to well-founded concerns
about creditors being able to maintain suits in federal courts for
payment,12 and stated his view that the Eleventh Amendment




of the Court during this period, see Georgia v. Madrazo, supra; United States v. Pe-
ters, 9 U.S. (5 Cr.) 115 (1809); Ex parte Madrazo, 32 U.S. (7 Pet.) 627 (1833), and
was held to be in error in Ex parte New York (No. 1), 256 U.S. 490 (1921).
     10 19 U.S. (6 Wheat.) 264 (1821).
     11 1 Stat. 73, 85.
     12 “It is a part of our history that, at the adoption of the constitution, all the

states were greatly indebted; and the apprehension that these debts might be pros-
ecuted in the federal courts, formed a very serious objection to that instrument. Suits
were instituted; and the court maintained its jurisdiction. The alarm was general;
and, to quiet the apprehensions that were so extensively entertained, this amend-
ment was proposed in congress, and adopted by the state legislatures. That its mo-
tive was not to maintain the sovereignty of a state from the degradation supposed
to attend a compulsory appearance before the tribunal of the nation, may be in-
ferred from the terms of the amendment. It does not comprehend controversies be-
tween two or more states, or between a state and a foreign state. The jurisdiction of
the court still extends to these cases: and in these, a state may still be sued. We
must ascribe the amendment, then, to some other cause than the dignity of a state.
There is no difficulty in finding this cause. Those who were inhibited from commenc-
ing a suit against a state, or from prosecuting one which might be commenced be-
fore the adoption of the amendment, were persons who might probably be its credi-
tors. There was not much reason to fear that foreign or sister states would be creditors
to any considerable amount, and there was reason to retain the jurisdiction of the
court in those cases, because it might be essential to the preservation of peace. The
amendment, therefore, extended to suits commenced or prosecuted by individuals,
but not to those brought by states.” 19 U.S. at 406–07.
