is barred by the Eleventh Amendment. The Tribe’s claim was based
on federal law—Executive Orders issued in the 1870s, prior to Idaho
statehood. The portion of Justice Kennedy’s opinion that repre-
sented the opinion of the Court concluded that the Tribe’s “un-
usual” suit was “the functional equivalent of a quiet title action which
implicates special sovereignty interests.” 156 The case was “un-
usual” because state ownership of submerged lands traces to the
Constitution through the “equal footing doctrine,” and because navi-
gable waters “uniquely implicate sovereign interests.” 157 This was
therefore no ordinary property dispute in which the state would re-
tain regulatory control over land regardless of title. Rather, grant
of the “far-reaching and invasive relief ” sought by the Tribe “would
diminish, even extinguish, the State’s control over a vast reach of
lands and waters long . . . deemed to be an integral part of its ter-
ritory.” 158
    A separate part of Justice Kennedy’s opinion, joined only by Chief
Justice Rehnquist, advocated more broad scale diminishment of Young.
The two would apply case-by-case balancing, taking into account the
availability of a state court forum to resolve the dispute and the
importance of the federal right at issue. Concurring Justice O’Connor,
joined by Justices Scalia and Thomas, rejected such balancing. Young
was inapplicable, Justice O’Connor explained, because “it simply can-
not be said” that a suit to divest the state of all regulatory power
over submerged lands “is not a suit against the State.” 159
    Addressing a suit by an independent state agency against state
health officials, the Court, quoting Pennhurst, reiterated “that the
general criterion for determining when a suit is in fact against the
sovereign is the effect of the relief sought.” 160




    156  521 U.S. at 281.
    157  521 U.S. at 284.
     158 521 U.S. at 282.
     159 521 U.S. at 296.
     160 Virginia Office for Protection and Advocacy v. Stewart, 563 U.S. ___, No. 09–

529, slip op. at 8 (2011) (quoting Pennhurst State School & Hospital v. Halderman,
465 U.S. at 107). Federal law offered states funding to improve services for the de-
velopmentally disabled and mentally ill on condition that, inter alia, the states des-
ignate a private or independent state entity to seek remedies for incidents of ne-
glect and abuse. Virginia was one of eight states to establish a state entity to exercise
this authority.
