did not bar suits against the states under federal question juris-
diction 13 and did not in any case reach suits against a state by
its own citizens.14
     In Osborn v. Bank of the United States,15 the Court, again through
Chief Justice Marshall, held that the Bank of the United States 16
could sue the Treasurer of Ohio, over Eleventh Amendment objec-
tions, because the plaintiff sought relief against a state officer rather
than against the state itself. This ruling embodied two principles,
one of which has survived and one of which the Marshall Court
itself soon abandoned. The latter holding was that a suit is not one
against a state unless the state is a named party of record.17 The
former holding, the primary rationale through which the strictures
of the Amendment are escaped, is that a state official possesses no
official capacity when acting illegally and consequently can derive
no protection from an unconstitutional statute of a state.18

      13 “The powers of the Union, on the great subjects of war, peace and commerce,

and on many others, are in themselves limitations of the sovereignty of the states;
but in addition to these, the sovereignty of the states is surrendered, in many in-
stances, where the surrender can only operate to the benefit of the people, and where,
perhaps, no other power is conferred on Congress than a conservative power to main-
tain the principles established in the constitution. The maintenance of these prin-
ciples in their purity, is certainly among the great duties of the government. One of
the instruments by which this duty may be peaceably performed, is the judicial de-
partment. It is authorized to decide all cases of every description, arising under the
constitution or laws of the United States. From this general grant of jurisdiction, no
exception is made of those cases in which a state may be a party. . . . [A]re we at
liberty to insert in this general grant, an exception of those cases in which a state
may be a party? Will the spirit of the constitution justify this attempt to control its
words? We think it will not. We think a case arising under the constitution or laws
of the United States, is cognizable in the courts of the Union, whoever may be the
parties to that case.” 19 U.S. at 382–83.
      14 “If this writ of error be a suit, in the sense of the 11th amendment, it is not a

suit commenced or prosecuted ‘by a citizen of another state, or by a citizen or sub-
ject of any foreign state.’ It is not, then, within the amendment, but is governed
entirely by the constitution as originally framed, and we have already seen, that in
its origin, the judicial power was extended to all cases arising under the constitu-
tion or laws of the United States, without respect to parties.” 19 U.S. at 412.
      15 22 U.S. (9 Wheat.) 738 (1824).
      16 The Bank of the United States was treated as if it were a private citizen,

rather than as the United States itself, and hence a suit by it was a diversity suit
by a corporation, as if it were a suit by the individual shareholders. Bank of the
United States v. Deveaux, 9 U.S. (5 Cr.) 61 (1809).
      17 22 U.S. at 850–58. For a reassertion of the Chief Justice’s view of the limited

effect of the Amendment, see id. at 857–58. But compare id. at 849. The holding was
repudiated in Governor of Georgia v. Madrazo, 26 U.S. (1 Pet.) 110 (1828), in which
it was conceded that the suit had been brought against the governor solely in his
official capacity and with the design of forcing him to exercise his official powers. It
is now well settled that in determining whether a suit is prosecuted against a state
“the Court will look behind and through the nominal parties on the record to ascer-
tain who are the real parties to the suit.” In re Ayers, 123 U.S. 443, 487 (1887).
      18 22 U.S. at 858–59, 868. For the flowering of the principle, see Ex parte Young,

209 U.S. 123 (1908).
