            HISTORICAL NOTE ON FORMATION OF THE
                        CONSTITUTION
     In June 1774, the Virginia and Massachusetts assemblies independently
proposed an intercolonial meeting of delegates from the several colonies to
restore union and harmony between Great Britain and her American Colo-
nies. Pursuant to these calls there met in Philadelphia in September of that
year the first Continental Congress, composed of delegates from 12 colonies.
On October 14, 1774, the assembly adopted what has become to be known
as the Declaration and Resolves of the First Continental Congress. In that
instrument, addressed to his Majesty and to the people of Great Britain, there
was embodied a statement of rights and principles, many of which were later
to be incorporated in the Declaration of Independence and the Federal Con-
stitution.1
     This Congress adjourned in October with a recommendation that an-
other Congress be held in Philadelphia the following May. Before its succes-
sor met, the battle of Lexington had been fought. In Massachusetts the colo-
nists had organized their own government in defiance of the royal governor
and the Crown. Hence, by general necessity and by common consent, the sec-
ond Continental Congress assumed control of the “Twelve United Colonies”,
soon to become the “Thirteen United Colonies” by the cooperation of Geor-
gia. It became a de facto government; it called upon the other colonies to
assist in the defense of Massachusetts; it issued bills of credit; it took steps
to organize a military force, and appointed George Washington commander
in chief of the Army.
    While the declaration of the causes and necessities of taking up arms of
July 6, 1775,2 expressed a “wish” to see the union between Great Britain
and the colonies “restored”, sentiment for independence was growing. Fi-
nally, on May 15, 1776, Virginia instructed her delegates to the Continental
Congress to have that body “declare the united colonies free and indepen-

     1 The colonists, for example, claimed the right “to life, liberty, and property”, “the rights,

liberties, and immunities of free and natural-born subjects within the realm of England”; the
right to participate in legislative councils; “the great and inestimable privilege of being tried by
their peers of the vicinage, according to the course of [the common law of England]”; “the immu-
nities and privileges granted and confirmed to them by royal charters, or secured by their sev-
eral codes of provincial laws”; “a right peaceably to assemble, consider of their grievances, and
petition the king.” They further declared that the keeping of a standing army in the colonies in
time of peace without the consent of the colony in which the army was kept was “against law”;
that it was “indispensably necessary to good government, and rendered essential by the Eng-
lish constitution, that the constituent branches of the legislature be independent of each other”;
that certain acts of Parliament in contravention of the foregoing principles were “infringement
and violations of the rights of the colonists.” Text in C. Tansill (ed.), Documents Illustrative of
the Formation of the Union of the American States, H. Doc. No. 358, 69th Congress, 1st sess.
(1927), 1. See also H. Commager (ed.), Documents of American History (New York; 8th ed. 1964),
82.
     2 Text in Tansill, op. cit., 10.
