dent States.” 3 Accordingly on June 7 a resolution was introduced in Con-
gress declaring the union with Great Britain dissolved, proposing the forma-
tion of foreign alliances, and suggesting the drafting of a plan of confederation
to be submitted to the respective colonies.4 Some delegates argued for confed-
eration first and declaration afterwards. This counsel did not prevail. Inde-
pendence was declared on July 4, 1776; the preparation of a plan of confed-
eration was postponed. It was not until November 17, 1777, that the Congress
was able to agree on a form of government which stood some chance of be-
ing approved by the separate States. The Articles of Confederation were then
submitted to the several States, and on July 9, 1778, were finally approved
by a sufficient number to become operative.
     Weaknesses inherent in the Articles of Confederation became apparent
before the Revolution out of which that instrument was born had been con-
cluded. Even before the thirteenth State (Maryland) conditionally joined the
“firm league of friendship” on March 1, 1781, the need for a revenue amend-
ment was widely conceded. Congress under the Articles lacked authority to
levy taxes. She could only request the States to contribute their fair share to
the common treasury, but the requested amounts were not forthcoming. To
remedy this defect, Congress applied to the States for power to lay duties
and secure the public debts. Twelve States agreed to such an amendment,
but Rhode Island refused her consent, thereby defeating the proposal.
     Thus was emphasized a second weakness in the Articles of Confedera-
tion, namely, the liberum veto which each State possessed whenever amend-
ments to that instrument were proposed. Not only did all amendments have
to be ratified by each of the 13 States, but all important legislation needed
the approval of 9 States. With several delegations often absent, one or two
States were able to defeat legislative proposals of major importance.
     Other imperfections in the Articles of Confederation also proved embar-
rassing. Congress could, for example, negotiate treaties with foreign powers,
but all treaties had to be ratified by the several States. Even when a treaty
was approved, Congress lacked authority to secure obedience to its stipula-
tions. Congress could not act directly upon the States or upon individuals.
Under such circumstances foreign nations doubted the value of a treaty with
the new Republic.
     Furthermore, Congress had no authority to regulate foreign or inter-
state commerce. Legislation in this field, subject to unimportant exceptions,
was left to the individual States. Disputes between States with common in-
terests in the navigation of certain rivers and bays were inevitable. Discrimi-
natory regulations were followed by reprisals.
     Virginia, recognizing the need for an agreement with Maryland respect-
ing the navigation and jurisdiction of the Potomac River, appointed in June
1784, four commissioners to “frame such liberal and equitable regulations
   3   Id. at 19.
   4   Id. at 21.
