     The Virginia legislature acted promptly upon this recommendation and
appointed a delegation to go to Philadelphia. Within a few weeks New Jer-
sey, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Delaware, and Georgia also made appoint-
ments. New York and several other States hesitated on the ground that, with-
out the consent of the Continental Congress, the work of the convention would
be extra-legal; that Congress alone could propose amendments to the Ar-
ticles of Confederation. Washington was quite unwilling to attend an irregu-
lar convention. Congressional approval of the proposed convention became,
therefore, highly important. After some hesitancy Congress approved the sug-
gestion for a convention at Philadelphia “for the sole and express purpose of
revising the Articles of Confederation and reporting to Congress and the sev-
eral legislatures such alterations and provisions therein as shall when agreed
to in Congress and confirmed by the States render the Federal Constitution
adequate to the exigencies of Government and the preservation of the Union.”
    Thereupon, the remaining States, Rhode Island alone excepted, ap-
pointed in due course delegates to the Convention, and Washington accepted
membership on the Virginia delegation.
    Although scheduled to convene on May 14, 1787, it was not until May
25 that enough delegates were present to proceed with the organization of
the Convention. Washington was elected as presiding officer. It was agreed
that the sessions were to be strictly secret.
     On May 29 Randolph, on behalf of the Virginia delegation, submitted to
the convention 15 propositions as a plan of government. Despite the fact that
the delegates were limited by their instructions to a revision of the Articles,
Virginia had really recommended a new instrument of government. For ex-
ample, provision was made in the Virginia plan for the separation of the three
branches of government; under the Articles executive, legislative, and judi-
cial powers were vested in the Congress. Furthermore the legislature was to
consist of two houses rather than one.
    On May 30 the Convention went into a committee of the whole to con-
sider the 15 propositions of the Virginia plan seriatim. These discussion con-
tinued until June 13, when the Virginia resolutions in amended form were
reported out of committee. They provided for proportional representation in
both houses. The small States were dissatisfied. Therefore, on June 14 when
the Convention was ready to consider the report on the Virginia plan, Paterson
of New Jersey requested an adjournment to allow certain delegations more
time to prepare a substitute plan. The request was granted, and on the next
day Paterson submitted nine resolutions embodying important changes in the
Articles of Confederation, but strictly amendatory in nature. Vigorous de-
bate followed. On June 19 the States rejected the New Jersey plan and voted
to proceed with a discussion of the Virginia plan. The small States became
more and more discontented; there were threats of withdrawal. On July 2,
