the Convention was deadlocked over giving each State an equal vote in the
upper house—five States in the affirmative, five in the negative, one di-
vided.9
     The problem was referred to a committee of 11, there being 1 delegate
from each State, to effect a compromise. On July 5 the committee submitted
its report, which became the basis for the “great compromise” of the Conven-
tion. It was recommended that in the upper house each State should have
an equal vote, that in the lower branch each State should have one represen-
tative for every 40,000 inhabitants, counting three-fifths of the slaves, that
money bills should originate in the lower house (not subject to amendment
by the upper chamber). When on July 12 the motion of Gouverneur Morris
of Pennsylvania that direct taxation should also be in proportion to represen-
tation was adopted, a crisis had been successfully surmounted. A compro-
mise spirit began to prevail. The small States were not willing to support a
strong national government.
     Debates on the Virginia resolutions continued. The 15 original resolu-
tions had been expanded into 23. Since these resolutions were largely decla-
rations of principles, on July 24 a committee of five 10 was elected to draft a
detailed constitution embodying the fundamental principles which had thus
far been approved. The Convention adjourned from July 26 to August 6 to
await the report of its committee of detail. This committee, in preparing its
draft of a Constitution, turned for assistance to the State constitutions, to
the Articles of Confederation, to the various plans which had been submit-
ted to the Convention and other available material. On the whole the report
of the committee conformed to the resolutions adopted by the Convention,
though on many clauses the members of the committee left the imprint of
their individual and collective judgments. In a few instances the committee
avowedly exercised considerable discretion.
     From August 6 to September 10 the report of the committee of detail
was discussed, section by section, clause by clause. Details were attended to,
further compromises were effected. Toward the close of these discussions, on
September 8, another committee of five 11 was appointed “to revise the style
of and arrange the articles which had been agreed to by the house.”
     On Wednesday, September 12, the report of the committee of style was
ordered printed for the convenience of the delegates. The Convention for 3
days compared this report with the proceedings of the Convention. The Con-
stitution was ordered engrossed on Saturday, September 15.
     The Convention met on Monday, September 17, for its final session. Sev-
eral of the delegates were disappointed in the result. A few deemed the new
    9  The New Hampshire delegation did not arrive until July 23, 1787.
    10 Rutledge of South Carolina, Randolph of Virginia, Gorham of Massachusetts, Ellsworth
of Connecticut, and Wilson of Pennsylvania.
    11 William Samuel Johnson of Connecticut, Alexander Hamilton of New York, Gouverneur

Morris of Pennsylvania, James Madison of Virginia, and Rufus King of Massachusetts.
