of religious practices.” 354 Rather, the provision “fits within the cor-
ridor” between the Free Exercise and Establishment Clauses, and
is “compatible with the [latter] because it alleviates exceptional
government-created burdens on private religious exercise.” 355
    Religious Test Oaths.—Although the Court has been divided
in dealing with religiously based conduct and governmental compul-
sion of action or nonaction, it was unanimous in voiding a state
constitutional provision which required a notary public, as a condi-
tion of perfecting his appointment, to declare his belief in the exis-
tence of God. The First Amendment, considered with the religious
oath provision of Article VI, makes it impossible “for government,
state or federal, to restore the historically and constitutionally dis-
credited policy of probing religious beliefs by test oaths or limiting
public offices to persons who have, or perhaps more properly, pro-
fess to have, a belief in some particular kind of religious con-
cept.” 356
    Religious Disqualification.—Unanimously, but with great dif-
ferences of approach, the Court declared invalid a Tennessee stat-
ute barring ministers and priests from service in a specially called
state constitutional convention.357 The Court’s decision necessarily
implied that the constitutional provision on which the statute was
based, barring ministers and priests from service as state legisla-
tors, was also invalid.

      FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION—SPEECH AND PRESS

Adoption and the Common Law Background
    Madison’s version of the speech and press clauses, introduced
in the House of Representatives on June 8, 1789, provided: “The
people shall not be deprived or abridged of their right to speak, to
write, or to publish their sentiments; and the freedom of the press,

    354  544 U.S. at 714.
    355  544 U.S. at 720.
     356 Torcaso v. Watkins, 367 U.S. 488, 494 (1961).
     357 McDaniel v. Paty, 435 U.S. 618 (1978). The plurality opinion by Chief Jus-

tice Burger, joined by Justices Powell, Rehnquist, and Stevens, found the case gov-
erned by Sherbert v. Verner’s strict scrutiny test. The state had failed to show that
its view of the dangers of clergy participation in the political process had any valid-
ity; Torcaso v. Watkins was distinguished because the state was acting on the status
of being a clergyman rather than on one’s beliefs. Justice Brennan, joined by Jus-
tice Marshall, found Torcaso controlling because imposing a restriction upon one’s
status as a religious person did penalize his religious belief, his freedom to profess
or practice that belief. Id. at 629. Justice Stewart also found Torcaso dispositive, id.
at 642, and Justice White found an equal protection violation because of the re-
straint upon seeking political office. Id. at 643.
