with a ‘valid and neutral law of general applicability on the ground
the law proscribes (or prescribes) conduct that his religion pre-
scribes (or proscribes).’ ” 43
     Government Neutrality in Religious Disputes.—One value
that both religion clauses serve is to enforce governmental neutral-
ity in deciding controversies arising out of religious disputes. Schisms
sometimes develop within churches or between a local church and
the general church, resulting in secession or expulsion of one fac-
tion or of the local church. A dispute over which body is to control
the property of the church will then often be taken into the courts.
It is now established that both religion clauses prevent governmen-
tal inquiry into religious doctrine in settling such disputes, and in-
stead require courts simply to look to the decision-making body or
process in the church and to give effect to whatever decision is offi-
cially and properly made.
    The first such case was Watson v. Jones,44 which was decided
on common-law grounds in a diversity action without explicit reli-
ance on the First Amendment. A constitutionalization of the rule
was made in Kedroff v. St. Nicholas Cathedral,45 in which the Court
held unconstitutional a state statute that recognized the autonomy
and authority of those North American branches of the Russian Or-
thodox Church that had declared their independence from the gen-
eral church. Recognizing that Watson v. Jones had been decided on
nonconstitutional grounds, the Court thought nonetheless that the
opinion “radiates . . . a spirit of freedom for religious organiza-
tions, and independence from secular control or manipulation—in
short, power to decide for themselves, free from state interference,
matters of church government as well as those of faith and doc-
trine.” 46 The power of civil courts to resolve church property dis-
putes was severely circumscribed, the Court held, because to per-
mit resolution of doctrinal disputes in court was to jeopardize First
Amendment values. What a court must do, it held, is to look at the
church rules: if the church is a hierarchical one that reposes deter-
mination of ecclesiastical issues in a certain body, the resolution by
that body is determinative, whereas if the church is a congrega-
tional one that prescribes action by a majority vote, that determina-

    43 Employment Div. v. Smith, 494 U.S. 872, 879 (1990), quoting United States v.

Lee, 455 U.S. 252, 263, n.3 (1982) (Justice Stevens concurring in the judgment).
    44 80 U.S. (13 Wall.) 679 (1872).
    45 344 U.S. 94 (1952). Kedroff was grounded on the Free Exercise Clause. Id. at

116. But the subsequent cases used a collective “First Amendment” designation.
    46 344 U.S. at 116. On remand, the state court adopted the same ruling on the

merits but relied on a common-law rule rather than the statute. This too was struck
down. Kreshik v. St. Nicholas Cathedral, 363 U.S. 190 (1960).
