committee. . . .” 839 Yet “[e]ven a significant interference with pro-
tected rights of political association may be sustained if the State
demonstrates a sufficiently important interest and employs means
closely drawn to avoid unnecessary abridgment of associational free-
doms.” 840
     As to expenditure limitations, the Court wrote, “[a] restriction
on the amount of money a person or group can spend on political
communication during a campaign necessarily reduces the quan-
tity of expression by restricting the number of issues discussed, the
depth of their exploration, and the size of the audience reached.” 841
The expenditure of money in political campaigns may involve speech
alone, conduct alone, or mixed speech-conduct, the Court noted, but
all forms of it involve communication, and when governmental regu-
lation is aimed directly at suppressing communication it does not
matter how that communication is defined. As such, the regulation
must be subjected to close scrutiny and justified by compelling gov-
ernmental interests.
    Applying this strict scrutiny standard, the contribution limita-
tions, with some construed exceptions, survived, but the expendi-
ture limitation did not. The contribution limitation was seen as im-
posing only a marginal restriction upon the contributor’s ability to
engage in free communication, inasmuch as the contribution shows
merely a generalized expression of support for a candidate without
communicating reasons for the support; “the size of the contribu-
tion provides a very rough index of the intensity of the contribu-
tors’ support for the candidate.” 842 The political expression really
occurs when the funds are spent by a candidate; only if the restric-
tions were set so low as to impede this communication would there
arise a constitutional infringement. This incidental restraint upon
expression may therefore be justified by Congress’s purpose to limit
the actuality and appearance of corruption resulting from large in-
dividual financial contributions.843

    839  424 U.S. at 22.
    840  424 U.S. at 25 (internal quotation marks omitted).
     841 424 U.S. at 19.
     842 424 U.S. at 21.
     843 424 U.S. at 14–38. Chief Justice Burger and Justice Blackmun would have

struck down the contribution limitations. Id. at 235, 241–46, 290. See also Califor-
nia Medical Ass’n v. FEC, 453 U.S. 182 (1981), sustaining a provision barring indi-
viduals and unincorporated associations from contributing more than $5,000 per year
to any multicandidate political action committee, on the basis of the standards ap-
plied to contributions in Buckley; and FEC v. National Right to Work Comm., 459
U.S. 197 (1982), sustaining a provision barring nonstock corporations from solicit-
ing contributions from persons other than their members when the corporation uses
the funds for designated federal election purposes.
