the individual, not by the State.” Finally, the Court concluded, there
was no evidence that “any significant portion of the aid expended
under the Washington program as a whole will end up flowing to
religious education.” 135
     In Zobrest v. Catalina Foothills School District 136 the Court re-
affirmed this line of reasoning. The case involved the provision of a
sign language interpreter pursuant to the Individuals with Disabili-
ties Education Act (IDEA) 137 to a deaf high school student who wanted
to attend a Catholic high school. In upholding the assistance as con-
stitutional, the Court emphasized that “[t]he service at issue in this
case is part of a general government program that distributes ben-
efits neutrally to any child qualifying as ‘disabled’ under the IDEA,
without regard to the ‘sectarian-nonsectarian, or public-nonpublic
nature’ of the school the child attends.” Thus, it held that the pres-
ence of the interpreter in the sectarian school resulted not from a
decision of the state but from the “private decision of individual par-
ents.” 138
     Finally, in Zelman v. Simmons-Harris 139 the Court reinter-
preted the genuine private choice criterion in a manner that seems
to render most voucher programs constitutional. At issue was an
Ohio program that provided vouchers to the parents of children in
failing public schools in Cleveland for use at private schools in the
city. The Court upheld the program notwithstanding that, as in Ny-
quist, most of the schools at which the vouchers could be redeemed
were religious and most of the voucher students attended such schools.
But the Court found that the program nevertheless involved “true
private choice.” 140 “Cleveland schoolchildren,” the Court said, “en-
joy a range of educational choices: They may remain in public school
as before, remain in public school with publicly funded tutoring aid,
obtain a scholarship and choose a religious school, obtain a scholar-
ship and choose a nonreligious private school, enroll in a commu-
nity school, or enroll in a magnet school. That 46 of the 56 private
schools now participating in the program are religious schools does
not condemn it as a violation of the Establishment Clause. The Es-
tablishment Clause question is whether Ohio is coercing parents
into sending their children to religious schools, and that question
must be answered by evaluating all options Ohio provides Cleve-

   135 474 U.S. at 488.
   136 509 U.S. 1 (1993).
   137 20 U.S.C. §§ 1400 et seq.
   138 509 U.S. at 10.
   139 536 U.S. at 639 (2002).
   140 536 U.S. at 653.
