reasons of ease of enforcement and of assuring a common day in
the community for rest and leisure.207 Later, a state statute man-
dating that employers honor the Sabbath day of the employee’s choice
was held invalid as having the primary effect of promoting religion
by weighing the employee’s Sabbath choice over all other inter-
ests.208
    Conscientious Objection.—Historically, Congress has pro-
vided for alternative service for men who had religious scruples against
participating in either combat activities or in all forms of military
activities; the fact that Congress chose to draw the line of exemp-
tion on the basis of religious belief confronted the Court with a dif-
ficult constitutional question, which, however, the Court chose to
avoid by a somewhat disingenuous interpretation of the statute.209
In Gillette v. United States,210 a further constitutional problem arose
in which the Court did squarely confront and validate the congres-
sional choice. Congress had restricted conscientious objection sta-
tus to those who objected to “war in any form” and the Court con-
ceded that there were religious or conscientious objectors who were
not opposed to all wars but only to particular wars based upon evalu-
ation of a number of factors by which the “justness” of any particu-
lar war could be judged; “properly construed,” the Court said, the
statute did draw a line relieving from military service some reli-
gious objectors while not relieving others.211 Purporting to apply the
secular purpose and effect test, the Court looked almost exclusively
to purpose and hardly at all to effect. Although it is not clear, the
Court seemed to require that a classification must be religiously based
“on its face” 212 or lack any “neutral, secular basis for the lines gov-

    207 366 U.S. at 449–52. Justice Frankfurter, with whom Justice Harlan con-

curred, arrived at the same conclusions by a route that did not require approval of
Everson v. Board of Education, from which he had dissented.
    208 Estate of Thornton v. Caldor, Inc., 472 U.S. 703 (1985).
    209 In United States v. Seeger, 380 U.S. 163 (1965), a unanimous Court con-

strued the language of the exemption limiting the status to those who by “religious
training and belief ” (that is, those who believed in a “Supreme Being”), to mean
that a person must have some belief which occupies in his life the place or role which
the traditional concept of God occupies in the orthodox believer. After the “Supreme
Being” clause was deleted, a plurality in Welsh v. United States, 398 U.S. 333 (1970),
construed the religion requirement as inclusive of moral, ethical, or religious grounds.
Justice Harlan concurred on constitutional grounds, believing that the statute was
clear that Congress had intended to restrict conscientious objection status to those
persons who could demonstrate a traditional religious foundation for their beliefs
and that this was impermissible under the Establishment Clause. Id. at 344. The
dissent by Justices White and Stewart and Chief Justice Burger rejected both the
constitutional and the statutory basis. 398 U.S. at 367.
    210 401 U.S. 437 (1971).
    211 401 U.S. at 449.
    212 401 U.S. at 450.
