tory of the displays revealed “a predominantly religious purpose”
that had not been eliminated by steps taken to give the appear-
ance of secular objectives.237
    There was no opinion of the Court in Van Orden. Justice Breyer,
the swing vote in the two cases,238 distinguished the Texas Capitol
grounds display from the Kentucky courthouse displays. In some
contexts, the Ten Commandments can convey a moral and histori-
cal message as well as a religious one, the Justice explained. Al-
though it was “a borderline case” turning on “a practical matter of
degree,” the capitol display served “a primarily nonreligious pur-
pose.” 239 The monument displaying the Ten Commandments was
one of 17 monuments and 21 historical markers on the Capitol
grounds; it was paid for by a private, civic, and primarily secular
organization; and it had been in place, unchallenged, for 40 years.
Under the circumstances, Justice Breyer thought that few would
be likely to understand the monument to represent an attempt by
government to favor religion.240
    The Court has also considered an Establishment Clause chal-
lenge to the display of a Latin Cross—erected to honor American
soldiers who died in World War I—on federal land located in a re-
mote section of the Mojave Desert.241 The legal proceedings leading
up to the decision, however, were complicated by congressional at-
tempts to influence the final disposition of the case, including the
attempted transfer of the federal land in question to private hands.242
     237 545 U.S. at 881. An “indisputable” religious purpose was evident in the reso-

lutions authorizing a second display, and the Court characterized statements of pur-
pose accompanying authorization of the third displays as “only . . . a litigating posi-
tion.” 545 U.S. at 870, 871.
     238 Only Justice Breyer voted to invalidate the courthouse displays and uphold

the capitol grounds display. The other eight Justices were split evenly, four (Chief
Justice Rehnquist and Justices Scalia, Kennedy, and Thomas) voting to uphold both
displays, and four (Justices Stevens, O’Connor, Souter, and Ginsburg) voting to in-
validate both.
     239 545 U.S. at 700, 704, 703.
     240 545 U.S. at 702. In Pleasant Grove City, Utah v. Summum, 129 S. Ct. 1125,

1140 (2009), Justice Scalia, in a concurring opinion joined by Justice Thomas, wrote
that, “[e]ven accepting the narrowest reading of the narrowest opinion necessary to
the judgment in Van Orden,” he would find that a Ten Commandments monument
displayed in a Utah public park for 38 years amidst 15 permanent displays would
not violate the Establishment Clause, even though the monument constituted gov-
ernment speech. The majority opinion did not consider the question, but decided the
case on free-speech grounds. See The Public Forum, infra.
     241 Salazar v. Buono, 559 U.S. ___, No. 08–472, slip op. (2010).
     242 During the course of the litigation, Congress variously passed an appropria-

tions bill forbidding the use of governmental funds to remove the cross, designating
the cross and its adjoining land as a “national memorial,” prohibitng the spending
of governmental funds to remove the cross, and directing the Secretary of the Inte-
rior to transfer the land to the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) as long as the prop-
erty was maintained as a memorial commemorating World War I veterans. A fed-
