funds in connection with a referendum. Similarly, the Court invali-
dated a criminal prohibition on payment of persons to circulate pe-
titions for a ballot initiative.872
    Venturing into the area of the constitutional validity of govern-
mental limits upon political activities by corporations, a closely di-
vided Court struck down a state law that prohibited corporations
from expending funds to influence referendum votes on any mea-
sure save proposals that materially affected corporate business, prop-
erty, or assets. In First National Bank of Boston v. Bellotti, the Court
held that the free discussion of governmental affairs “is the type of
speech indispensable to decisionmaking in a democracy,” and that
“this is no less true because the speech comes from a corporation
rather than an individual.” 873 The Court held that it is the nature
of the speech, not the status of the speaker, that is relevant for First
Amendment analysis, thus allowing it to pass by the question of
the rights a corporate person may have. The “materially affecting”
requirement was found to be an impermissible proscription of speech
based on the content of the speech and the identity of the interests
that the speaker represented. The “exacting scrutiny” that restric-
tions on speech must pass was not satisfied by any of the justifica-
tions offered and the Court in any event found some of them imper-
missible.
    Bellotti called into some question the constitutionality of the fed-
eral law that makes it unlawful for any corporation or labor union
“to make a contribution or expenditure in connection with any elec-
tion” for federal office or “in connection with any primary election
or political convention or caucus held to select candidates” for such

      872 Meyer v. Grant, 486 U.S. 414 (1988). The Court subsequently struck down a

Colorado statute that required ballot-initiative proponents, if they pay circulators,
to file reports disclosing circulators’ names and addresses and the total amount paid
to each circulator. Buckley v. American Constitutional Law Foundation, 525 U.S. 182
(1999). Although the Court upheld a requirement that proponents’ names and the
total amount they have spent to collect signatures be disclosed, as this served “as a
control or check on domination of the initiative process by affluent special interest
groups” (id. at 202), it found that “[t]he added benefit of revealing the names of paid
circulators and the amounts paid to each circulator . . . is hardly apparent and has
not been demonstrated.” Id. at 203. The Court also struck down a requirement that
circulators be registered voters, as the state’s interest in ensuring that circulators
would be amenable to subpoenas was served by the requirement that they be resi-
dents a requirement on which the Court had no occasion to rule.
      873 435 U.S. 765, 777 (1978). Justice Powell wrote the opinion of the Court. Dis-

senting, Justices White, Brennan, and Marshall argued that while corporations were
entitled to First Amendment protection, they were subject to more regulation than
were individuals, and substantial state interests supported the restrictions. Id. at
802. Justice Rehnquist went further in dissent, finding no corporate constitutional
protection. Id. at 822.
