it occurred strengthened the powers of government, federal, state,
and local, to outlaw or restrictively regulate the sale and dissemi-
nation of materials found objectionable, and developed new stan-
dards for determining which objectionable materials are legally ob-
scene.
     At the end of the October 1971 Term, the Court requested argu-
ment on the question whether the display of sexually oriented films
or of sexually oriented pictorial magazines, when surrounded by no-
tice to the public of their nature and by reasonable protection against
exposure to juveniles, was constitutionally protected.1303 By a five-
to-four vote the following Term, the Court in Paris Adult Theatre I
v. Slaton adhered to the principle established in Roth that obscene
material is not protected by the First and Fourteenth Amendments
even if access is limited to consenting adults.1304 Chief Justice Burger
for the Court observed that the states have wider interests than
protecting juveniles and unwilling adults from exposure to pornog-
raphy; legitimate state interests, effectuated through the exercise
of the police power, exist in protecting and improving the quality of
life and the total community environment, in improving the tone of
commerce in the cities, and in protecting public safety. It does not
matter that the states may be acting on the basis of unverifiable
assumptions in arriving at the decision to suppress the trade in por-
nography; the Constitution does not require in the context of the
trade in ideas that governmental courses of action be subject to em-
pirical verification any more than it does in other fields. Nor does
the Constitution embody any concept of laissez faire, or of privacy,
or of Millsean “free will,” that curbs governmental efforts to sup-
press pornography.1305

rials from baggage of travelers are constitutional). In Grove Press v. Maryland State
Bd. of Censors, 401 U.S. 480 (1971), a state court determination that the motion
picture “I Am Curious (Yellow)” was obscene was affirmed by an equally divided Court,
Justice Douglas not participating. And Stanley v. Georgia, 394 U.S. 557, 560–64,
568 (1969), had insisted that Roth remained the governing standard.
     1303 Paris Adult Theatre I v. Slaton, 408 U.S. 921 (1972); Alexander v. Virginia,

408 U.S. 921 (1972).
     1304 413 U.S. 49 (1973).
     1305 413 U.S. at 57, 60–62, 63–64, 65–68. Delivering the principal dissent, Jus-

tice Brennan argued that the Court’s Roth approach allowing the suppression of por-
nography was a failure, that the Court had not and could not formulate standards
by which protected materials could be distinguished from unprotected materials, and
that the First Amendment had been denigrated through the exposure of numerous
persons to punishment for the dissemination of materials that fell close to one side
of the line rather than the other, but more basically by deterrence of protected ex-
pression caused by the uncertainty. Id. at 73. “I would hold, therefore, that at least
in the absence of distribution to juveniles or obtrusive exposure to unconsenting adults,
the First and Fourteenth Amendments prohibit the State and Federal Governments
from attempting wholly to suppress sexually oriented materials on the basis of their
