related spending, helping citizens “make informed choices in the
political marketplace,” and facilitate the ability of shareholders to
hold corporations accountable for such political speech.912
    In Randall v. Sorrell, a plurality of the Court struck down a
Vermont campaign finance statute’s limitations on both expendi-
tures and contributions.913 As for the statute’s expenditure limita-
tions, the plurality found Buckley to control and saw no reason to
overrule it and no adequate basis upon which to distinguish it. As
for the statute’s contribution limitations, the plurality, following
Buckley, considered whether the “contribution limits prevent candi-
dates from ‘amassing the resources necessary for effective [cam-
paign] advocacy’; whether they magnify the advantages of incum-
bency to the point where they put challengers to a significant
disadvantage; in a word, whether they are too low and too strict to
survive First Amendment scrutiny.” 914 The plurality found that they
were.915 Vermont’s limit of $200 per gubernatorial election “(with
significantly lower limits for contributions to candidates for State
Senate and House of Representatives) . . . are well below the lim-
its this Court upheld in Buckley,” and “are the lowest in the Na-
tion.” 916 But the plurality struck down Vermont’s contribution lim-
its “based not merely on the low dollar amounts of the limits
themselves, but also on the statute’s effect on political parties and
on volunteer activity in Vermont elections.” 917
    Government as Regulator of the Electoral Process: Lobby-
ing.—Legislators may depend upon representations made to them
and information supplied to them by interested parties, and there-
fore may desire to know what the real interests of those parties
are, what groups or persons they represent, and other such infor-
mation. But everyone is constitutionally entitled to write his con-
     912 558 U.S. ___, slip op. at 50–51 (citations omitted). The Court had previously

acknowledged that as-applied challenges would be available to a group if it could
show a “reasonable probability” that disclosure of its contributors’ names would “sub-
ject them to threats, harassment, or reprisals from either Government officials or
private parties.” McConnell, 540 U.S. at 198 (quoting Buckley, 427 U.S. at 74).
     913 548 U.S. 230 (2006). Justice Breyer wrote the plurality opinion, with only

Chief Justice Roberts joining it in full. Justice Alito joined the opinion as to the
contribution limitations but not as to the expenditure limitations. Justice Alito and
three other Justices concurred in the judgment as to the limitations on both expen-
ditures and contributions, and three Justices dissented.
     914 548 U.S. at 248 (citation omitted).
     915 Although, as here, limits on contributions may be so low as to violate the

First Amendment, “there is no constitutional basis for attacking contribution limits
on the ground that they are too high. Congress has no constitutional obligation to
limit contributions at all . . . .” Davis v. Federal Election Commission, 128 S. Ct.
2759, 2771 (2008) (dictum).
     916 548 U.S. at 249 (citation omitted). The plurality noted that, “in terms of real

dollars (i.e., adjusting for inflation),” they were lower still. Id. at 250.
     917 548 U.S. at 253.
