v. KQED,980 in which a broadcaster had sued for access to a prison
from which public and press alike were barred and as to which there
was considerable controversy over conditions of incarceration. Fol-
lowing initiation of the suit, the administrator of the prison autho-
rized limited public tours. The tours were open to the press, but
cameras and recording devices were not permitted, there was no
opportunity to talk to inmates, and the tours did not include the
maximum security area about which much of the controversy cen-
tered. The Supreme Court overturned the injunction obtained in the
lower courts, the plurality reiterating that “[n]either the First Amend-
ment nor the Fourteenth Amendment mandates a right of access to
government information or sources of information within the gov-
ernment’s control. . . . [U]ntil the political branches decree other-
wise, as they are free to do, the media have no special right of ac-
cess to the Alameda County Jail different from or greater than that
accorded the public generally.” 981 Justice Stewart, whose vote was
necessary to the disposition of the case, agreed with the equal ac-
cess holding but would have approved an injunction more narrowly
drawn to protect the press’s right to use cameras and recorders so
as to enlarge public access to the information.982 Thus, any ques-
tion of special press access appears settled by the decision; yet the
questions raised above remain: May everyone be barred from ac-
cess and, if access is accorded, does the Constitution necessitate any
limitation on the discretion of prison administrators? 983
    Government and the Power of the Purse.—The unconstitu-
tional conditions doctrine limits the authority of the federal govern-
ment to impose conditions on the receipt of federal funds that limit
the speech of the recipient. However, as an exercise of its spending

     980 438 U.S. 1 (1978). The decision’s imprecision of meaning is partly attribut-

able to the fact that there was no opinion of the Court. A plurality opinion repre-
sented the views of only three Justices; two Justices did not participate, three Jus-
tices dissented, and one Justice concurred with views that departed somewhat from
the plurality.
     981 438 U.S. at 15–16.
     982 438 U.S. at 16.
     983 The dissenters, Justices Stevens, Brennan, and Powell, believed that the Con-

stitution protects the public’s right to be informed about conditions within the prison
and that total denial of access, such as existed prior to institution of the suit, was
unconstitutional. They would have sustained the more narrowly drawn injunctive
relief to the press on the basis that no member of the public had yet sought access.
438 U.S. at 19. It is clear that Justice Stewart did not believe that the Constitution
affords any relief. Id. at 16. Although the plurality opinion of the Chief Justice Burger
and Justices White and Rehnquist may be read as not deciding whether any public
right of access exists, overall it appears to proceed on the unspoken basis that there
is none. The second question, when Justice Stewart’s concurring opinion and the
dissenting opinion are combined, appears to be answerable qualifiedly in the direc-
tion of constitutional constraints upon the nature of access limitation once access is
granted.
