    The Jehovah’s Witnesses Cases.—In contrast to the Mor-
mons, the sect known as Jehovah’s Witnesses, in many ways as un-
settling to the conventional as the Mormons were,278 provoked from
the Court a lengthy series of decisions 279 expanding the rights of
religious proselytizers and other advocates to use the streets and
parks to broadcast their ideas, though the decisions may be based
more squarely on the speech clause than on the Free Exercise Clause.
The leading case is Cantwell v. Connecticut.280 Three Jehovah’s Wit-
nesses were convicted under a statute that forbade the unlicensed
soliciting of funds for religious or charitable purposes, and also un-
der a general charge of breach of the peace. The solicitation count
was voided as an infringement on religion because the issuing offi-
cer was authorized to inquire whether the applicant’s cause was “a
religious one” and to decline to issue a license if he determined that
it was not.281 Such power amounted to a prior restraint upon the
exercise of religion and was invalid, the Court held.282 The breach
of the peace count arose when the three accosted two Catholics in
a strongly Catholic neighborhood and played them a phonograph
record which grossly insulted the Christian religion in general and
the Catholic Church in particular. The Court voided this count un-
der the clear-and-present danger test, finding that the interest sought
to be upheld by the state did not justify the suppression of reli-
gious views that simply annoyed listeners.283
    A series of sometimes-conflicting decisions followed. At first, the
Court sustained the application of a non-discriminatory license fee
rent to the sentiments and feelings of the civilized world. . . . The organization of a
community for the spread and practice of polygamy is, in a measure, a return to
barbarism. It is contrary to the spirit of Christianity and of the civilization which
Christianity has produced in the Western world.” Id. at 48–49.
     278 For later cases dealing with other religious groups discomfiting to the main-

stream, see Heffron v. ISKCON, 452 U.S. 640 (1981) (Hare Krishnas); Larson v. Valente,
456 U.S. 228 (1982) (Unification Church). Church of the Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v.
City of Hialeah, 508 U.S. 520 (1993) (Santeria faith).
     279 Most of the cases are collected and categorized by Justice Frankfurter in

Niemotko v. Maryland, 340 U.S. 268, 273 (1951) (concurring opinion).
     280 310 U.S. 296 (1940).
     281 310 U.S. at 305.
     282 310 U.S. at 307. “The freedom to act must have appropriate definition to

preserve the enforcement of that protection [of society]. In every case the power to
regulate must be so exercised as not, in attaining a permissible end, unduly to in-
fringe the protected freedom. . . . [A] State may by general and non-discriminatory
legislation regulate the times, the places, and the manner of soliciting upon its streets,
and of holding meetings thereon; and may in other respects safeguard the peace,
good order and comfort of the community, without unconstitutionally invading the
liberties protected by the Fourteenth Amendment.” Id. at 304.
     283 310 U.S. at 307–11. “In the realm of religious faith, and in that of political

belief, sharp differences arise. In both fields the tenets of one man may seem the
rankest error to his neighbor. To persuade others to his own point of view, the pleader,
as we know, at times, resorts to exaggeration, to vilification of men who have been,
or are, prominent in church or state, and even to false statement. But the people of
