fice were subject to the Times rule and comment on their character
or past conduct, public or private, insofar as it touches upon their
fitness for office, is protected.1209
     Thus, a wide range of reporting about both public officials and
candidates is protected. Certainly, the conduct of official duties by
public officials is subject to the widest scrutiny and criticism.1210
But the Court has held as well that criticism that reflects gener-
ally upon an official’s integrity and honesty is protected.1211 Candi-
dates for public office, the Court has said, place their whole lives
before the public, and it is difficult to see what criticisms could not
be related to their fitness.1212
     For a time, the Court’s decisional process threatened to expand
the Times privilege so as to obliterate the distinction between pri-
vate and public figures. First, the Court created a subcategory of
“public figure,” which included those otherwise private individuals
who have attained some prominence, either through their own ef-
forts or because it was thrust upon them, with respect to a matter
erative Pub. Ass’n v. Bresler, 398 U.S. 6 (1970) (state legislator who was major real
estate developer in area); Time, Inc. v. Pape, 401 U.S. 279 (1971) (police captain).
The categorization does not, however, include all government employees. Hutchinson
v. Proxmire, 443 U.S. 111, 119 n.8 (1979).
     1209 Monitor Patriot Co. v. Roy, 401 U.S. 265 (1971); Ocala Star-Banner Co. v.

Damron, 401 U.S. 295 (1971).
     1210 Rosenblatt v. Baer, 383 U.S. 75, 85 (1966).
     1211 Garrison v. Louisiana, 379 U.S. 64 (1964), involved charges that judges were

inefficient, took excessive vacations, opposed official investigations of vice, and were
possibly subject to “racketeer influences.” The Court rejected an attempted distinc-
tion that these criticisms were not of the manner in which the judges conducted
their courts but were personal attacks upon their integrity and honesty. “Of course,
any criticism of the manner in which a public official performs his duties will tend
to affect his private, as well as his public, reputation. . . . The public-official rule
protects the paramount public interest in a free flow of information to the people
concerning public officials, their servants. To this end, anything which might touch
on an official’s fitness for office is relevant. Few personal attributes are more ger-
mane to fitness for office than dishonesty, malfeasance, or improper motivation, even
though these characteristics may also affect the official’s private character.” Id. at
76–77.
     1212 In Monitor Patriot Co. v. Roy, 401 U.S. 265, 274–75 (1971), the Court said:

“The principal activity of a candidate in our political system, his ‘office,’ so to speak,
consists in putting before the voters every conceivable aspect of his public and pri-
vate life that he thinks may lead the electorate to gain a good impression of him. A
candidate who, for example, seeks to further his cause through the prominent dis-
play of his wife and children can hardly argue that his qualities as a husband or
father remain of ‘purely private’ concern. And the candidate who vaunts his spotless
record and sterling integrity cannot convincingly cry ‘Foul’ when an opponent or an
industrious reporter attempts to demonstrate the contrary. . . . Given the realities
of our political life, it is by no means easy to see what statements about a candidate
might be altogether without relevance to his fitness for the office he seeks. The clash
of reputations is the staple of election campaigns and damage to reputation is, of
course, the essence of libel. But whether there remains some exiguous area of defa-
mation against which a candidate may have full recourse is a question we need not
decide in this case.”
