pockets when transportation to a public school would have been paid
for by the State.” 61 Transportation benefited the child, just as did
police protection at crossings, fire protection, connections for sew-
age disposal, public highways and sidewalks. Thus was born the
“child benefit” theory.62
     The Court in 1968 relied on the “child benefit” theory to sus-
tain state loans of textbooks to parochial school students.63 Using
the secular purpose and effect tests,64 the Court determined that
the purpose of the loans was the “furtherance of the educational
opportunities available to the young,” while the effect was hardly
less secular. “The law merely makes available to all children the
benefits of a general program to lend school books free of charge.
Books are furnished at the request of the pupil and ownership re-
mains, at least technically, in the state. Thus no funds or books are
furnished to parochial schools, and the financial benefit is to par-
ents and children, not to schools. Perhaps free books make it more
likely that some children choose to attend a sectarian school, but
that was true of the state-paid bus fares in Everson and does not
alone demonstrate an unconstitutional degree of support for a reli-
gious institution.” 65
     From these beginnings, the case law on the discretion of state
and federal governmental assistance to sectarian elementary and
secondary schools as well as other religious entities has multiplied.
Through the 1970s, at least, the law became as restrictive in fact
as the dicta in the early cases suggested, except for the provision
of some assistance to children under the “child benefit” theory. Since
that time, the Court has gradually adopted a more accommodating
approach. It has upheld direct aid programs that have been of only
marginal benefit to the religious mission of the recipient elemen-
tary and secondary schools, tax benefit and scholarship aid pro-
grams where the schools have received the assistance as the result
of the independent decisions of the parents or students who ini-
tially receive the aid, and in its most recent decisions direct aid
programs which substantially benefit the educational function of such
     61 330 U.S. at 17. It was in Everson that the Court, without much discussion of

the matter, held that the Establishment Clause applied to the states through the
Fourteenth Amendment and limited both national and state governments equally.
Id. at 8, 13, 14–16. The issue is discussed at some length by Justice Brennan in
Abington School Dist. v. Schempp, 374 U.S. 203, 253–58 (1963).
     62 See also Zorach v. Clauson, 343 U.S. 306, 312–13 (1952) (upholding program

allowing public schools to excuse students to attend religious instruction or exer-
cises).
     63 Board of Education v. Allen, 392 U.S. 236 (1968).
     64 See discussion under “Court Tests Applied to Legislation Affecting Religion,”

supra.
     65 392 U.S. at 243–44 (1968).
