but would be perceived as “stamped with [the] school’s seal of ap-
proval.” 174 The Court concluded that “[t]he policy is invalid on its
face because it establishes an improper majoritarian election on re-
ligion, and unquestionably has the purpose and creates the percep-
tion of encouraging the delivery of prayer at a series of important
school events.” 175
     Governmental Encouragement of Religion in Public Schools:
Curriculum Restriction.—In Epperson v. Arkansas,176 the Court
struck down a state statute that made it unlawful for any teacher
in any state-supported educational institution “to teach the theory
or doctrine that mankind ascended or descended from a lower or-
der of animals,” or “to adopt or use in any such institution a text-
book that teaches” this theory. Agreeing that control of the curricu-
lum of the public schools was largely in the control of local officials,
the Court nonetheless held that the motivation of the statute was
a fundamentalist belief in the literal reading of the Book of Gen-
esis and that this motivation and result required the voiding of the
law. “The law’s effort was confined to an attempt to blot out a par-
ticular theory because of its supposed conflict with the Biblical ac-
count, literally read. Plainly, the law is contrary to the mandate of
the First . . . Amendment to the Constitution.” 177
     Similarly invalidated as having the improper purpose of advanc-
ing religion was a Louisiana statute mandating balanced treat-
ment of “creation-science” and “evolution-science” in the public schools.
“The preeminent purpose of the Louisiana legislature,” the Court
found in Edwards v. Aguillard, “was clearly to advance the reli-
gious viewpoint that a supernatural being created humankind.” 178
The Court viewed as a “sham” the stated purpose of protecting aca-
demic freedom, and concluded instead that the legislature’s pur-
pose was to narrow the science curriculum in order to discredit evo-
lution “by counterbalancing its teaching at every turn with the teaching
of creation science.” 179
     Access of Religious Groups to Public Property.—Although
government may not promote religion through its educational facili-
ties, it may not bar student religious groups from meeting on pub-
lic school property if it makes its facilities available to nonreligious
    174  530 U.S. at 308.
    175  530 U.S. at 317.
     176 393 U.S. 97 (1968).
     177 393 U.S. at 109.
     178 482 U.S. 578, 591 (1987).
     179 482 U.S. at 589. The Court’s conclusion was premised on its finding that “the

term ‘creation science,’ as used by the legislature . . . embodies the religious belief
that a supernatural creator was responsible for the creation of humankind.” Id. at
592.
