Both programs, it was held, constituted public financial assistance
to sectarian institutions with no attempt to segregate the benefits
so that religion was not advanced.122
    New York had also enacted a separate program providing tax
relief for low-income parents who did not qualify for the tuition re-
imbursements; here relief was in the form of a deduction or credit
bearing no relationship to the amounts of tuition paid, but keyed
instead to adjusted gross income. This too was invalidated in Ny-
quist. “In practical terms there would appear to be little difference,
for purposes of determining whether such aid has the effect of ad-
vancing religion, between the tax benefit allowed here and the tu-
ition [reimbursement] grant. . . . The qualifying parent under ei-
ther program receives the same form of encouragement and reward
for sending his children to nonpublic schools. The only difference is
that one parent receives an actual cash payment while the other is
allowed to reduce by an arbitrary amount the sum he would other-
wise be obliged to pay over to the State. We see no answer to Judge
Hays’ dissenting statement below that ‘[i]n both instances the money
involved represents a charge made upon the state for the purpose
of religious education.’ ” 123 Some difficulty, however, was experi-
enced in distinguishing this program from the tax exemption ap-
proved in Walz.124
     The Court rejected two subsidiary arguments in these cases. The
first, in the New York case, was that the tuition reimbursement pro-
gram promoted the free exercise of religion in that it permitted low-
income parents desiring to send their children to school in accor-
dance with their religious views to do so. The Court agreed that
“tension inevitably exists between the Free Exercise and the Estab-
lishment Clauses,” but explained that the tension is ordinarily re-
solved through application of the “neutrality” principle: govern-
ment may neither advance nor inhibit religion. The tuition program
inescapably advanced religion and thereby violated this prin-

     122 Committee for Public Educ. & Religious Liberty v. Nyquist, 413 U.S. 756,

789–798 (1973) (New York); Sloan v. Lemon, 413 U.S. 825 (1973) (Pennsylvania).
The Court distinguished Everson and Allen on the grounds that in those cases the
aid was given to all children and their parents and that the aid was in any event
religiously neutral, so that any assistance to religion was purely incidental. 413 U.S.
at 781–82. Chief Justice Burger thought that Everson and Allen were controlling.
Id. at 798.
     123 Committee for Public Educ. & Religious Liberty v. Nyquist, 413 U.S. 756,

790–91 (1973).
     124 413 U.S. at 791–94. Principally, Walz was said to be different because of the

longstanding nature of the property tax exemption it dealt with, because the Walz
exemption was granted in the spirit of neutrality whereas the tax credit under con-
sideration was not, and the fact that the Walz exemption promoted less entangle-
ment whereas the credit would promote more.
