as an employer. . . . We hold that the language ‘such cause as will
promote the efficiency of the service’ in the Act excludes constitu-
tionally protected speech, and that the statute is therefore not over-
broad.” 777
     Pickering was distinguished in Connick v. Myers,778 involving
what the Court characterized in the main as an employee griev-
ance rather than an effort to inform the public on a matter of pub-
lic concern. The employee, an assistant district attorney involved
in a dispute with her supervisor over transfer to a different sec-
tion, was fired for insubordination after she circulated a question-
naire among her peers soliciting views on matters relating to em-
ployee morale. The Court found this firing permissible. “When
employee expression cannot be fairly considered as relating to any
matter of political, social, or other concern to the community, gov-
ernment officials should enjoy wide latitude in managing their of-
fices, without intrusive oversight by the judiciary in the name of
the First Amendment.” 779 Whether an employee’s speech addresses
a matter of public concern, the Court indicated, must be deter-
mined not only by its content, but also by its form and context.780
Because one aspect of the employee’s speech did raise matters of
public concern, Connick also applied Pickering’s balancing test, hold-
ing that “a wide degree of deference is appropriate” when “close work-
ing relationships” between employer and employee are involved.781
The issue of public concern is not only a threshold inquiry, but, un-
der Connick, still figures in the balancing of interests: “the State’s
burden in justifying a particular discharge varies depending upon
the nature of the employee’s expression” and its importance to the
public.782
    On the other hand, the Court has indicated that an employee’s
speech may be protected as relating to matters of public concern
     777 416 U.S. at 162. In dissent, Justice Marshall argued: “The Court’s answer is

no answer at all. To accept this response is functionally to eliminate overbreadth
from the First Amendment lexicon. No statute can reach and punish constitution-
ally protected speech. The majority has not given the statute a limiting construction
but merely repeated the obvious.” Id. at 229.
     778 461 U.S. 138 (1983).
     779 461 U.S. at 146. Connick was a 5–4 decision. Justice Brennan wrote the dis-

sent, arguing that information concerning morale at an important government office
is a matter of public concern, and that the Court extended too much deference to
the employer’s judgment as to disruptive effect. Id. at 163–65.
     780 461 U.S. at 147–48. Justice Brennan objected to this introduction of context,

admittedly relevant in balancing interests, into the threshold issue of public con-
cern.
     781 461 U.S. at 151–52.
     782 461 U.S. at 150. The Court explained that “a stronger showing [of interfer-

ence with governmental interests] may be necessary if the employee’s speech more
substantially involve[s] matters of public concern.” Id. at 152.
