in plain language a long list of activities would clearly be valid.756
The issue in Letter Carriers, however, was whether the language
that Congress had enacted, forbidding employees to take “an active
part in political management or in political campaigns,” 757 was un-
constitutional on its face, either because the statute was too impre-
cise to allow government employees to determine what was forbid-
den and what was permitted, or because the statute swept in under
its coverage conduct that Congress could not forbid as well as con-
duct subject to prohibition or regulation. With respect to vague-
ness, plaintiffs contended and the lower court had held that the quoted
proscription was inadequate to provide sufficient guidance and that
the only further elucidation Congress had provided was in a sec-
tion stating that the forbidden activities were the same activities
that the Commission had as of 1940, and reaching back to 1883,
“determined are at the time of the passage of this act prohibited on
the part of employees . . . by the provisions of the civil-service
rules. . . .” 758 This language had been included, it was contended,
to deprive the Commission of power to alter thousands of rulings it
had made that were not available to employees and that were in
any event mutually inconsistent and too broad.
     The Court held, on the contrary, that Congress had intended to
confine the Commission to the boundaries of its rulings as of 1940
but had further intended the Commission by a process of case-by-
case adjudication to flesh out the prohibition and to give content to
it. The Commission had done that. It had regularly summarized in
understandable terms the rules that it applied, and it was autho-
rized as well to issue advisory opinions to employees uncertain of
the propriety of contemplated conduct. “[T]here are limitations in
the English language with respect to being both specific and man-
ageably brief,” said the Court, but it thought the prohibitions as
elaborated in Commission regulations and rulings were “set out in
terms that the ordinary person exercising ordinary common sense
can sufficiently understand and comply with, without sacrifice to
the public interests.” 759 There were conflicts, the Court conceded,
between some of the things forbidden and some of the protected ex-
pressive activities, but these were at most marginal. Thus, some
conduct arguably protected did under some circumstances so par-
take of partisan activities as to be properly proscribable. But the
Court would not invalidate the entire statute for this degree of

   756 413   U.S.   at   556.
   757 413   U.S.   at   554, 570 n.17.
   758 413   U.S.   at   570 n.17.
   759 413   U.S.   at   578–79.
