Times privilege would not extend to the intentional infliction of emo-
tional distress upon a private citizen. However, in Snyder v. Phelps,1265
the Court avoided addressing this issue, finding that where public
protesters are addressing issues of public concern, the fact that such
protests occurred in a setting likely to upset private individuals did
not reduce the First Amendment protection of that speech. In Phelps,
the congregation of the Westboro Baptist Church, based on the be-
lief that God punishes the United States for its tolerance of homo-
sexuality, particularly in America’s armed forces, had engaged in
nearly 600 protests at funerals, mostly military. While it was admit-
ted that the plaintiff had suffered emotional distress after a pro-
test at his son’s funeral, the Court declined to characterize the pro-
tests as directed at the father personally.1266 Rather, considering the
“content, form, and context” of that speech,1267 the Court found that
the dominant themes of the protest went to public concerns, and
thus could not serve as the basis for a tort suit.1268
    “Right of Publicity” Tort Actions.—In Zacchini v. Scripps-
Howard Broadcasting Co.,1269 the Court held unprotected by the First
Amendment a broadcast of a video tape of the “entire act” of a “hu-
man cannonball” in the context of the performer’s suit for damages
against the company for having “appropriated” his act, thereby in-
juring his right to the publicity value of his performance. The Court
emphasized two differences between the legal action permitted here
and the legal actions found unprotected or not fully protected in
defamation and other privacy-type suits. First, the interest sought
to be protected was, rather than a party’s right to his reputation
and freedom from mental distress, the right of the performer to re-
muneration for putting on his act. Second, the other torts if permit-
ted decreased the information that would be made available to the
public, whereas permitting this tort action would have an impact

    1265  562 U.S. ___, No. 09–751, slip op. (March 2, 2011).
    1266  Signs displayed at the protest included the phrases “God Hates the USA/Thank
God for 9/11,” “America is Doomed,” “Don’t Pray for the USA,” “Thank God for IEDs,”
“Thank God for Dead Soldiers,” “Pope in Hell,” “Priests Rape Boys,” “God Hates Fags,”
“You’re Going to Hell,” and “God Hates You.” , 562 U.S. ___, No. 09–751, slip op. at
2.
     1267 562 U.S. ___, No. 09–751, slip op. at 8 (citations omitted).
     1268 Justice Alito, in dissent, argued that statements made by the defendants

on signs and on a website could have been reasonably interpreted as directed at the
plaintiffs, and that even if public themes were a dominant theme at the protest,
that this should not prevent a suit from being brought on those statements argu-
ably directed at private individuals. Slip op. at 9–11 (Alito, J., dissenting).
     1269 433 U.S. 562 (1977). The “right of publicity” tort is conceptually related to

one of the privacy strands: “appropriation” of one’s name or likeness for commercial
purposes. Id. at 569–72. Justices Powell, Brennan, and Marshall dissented, finding
the broadcast protected, id. at 579, and Justice Stevens dissented on other grounds.
Id. at 582.
