security and an individual’s exercise of his First Amendment rights,
we have confined our analysis to whether Congress has adopted a
constitutional means in achieving its concededly legitimate legisla-
tive goal. In making this determination we have found it necessary
to measure the validity of the means adopted by Congress against
both the goal it has sought to achieve and the specific prohibitions
of the First Amendment. But we have in no way ‘balanced’ those
respective interests. We have ruled only that the Constitution re-
quires that the conflict between congressional power and indi-
vidual rights be accommodated by legislation drawn more narrowly
to avoid the conflict.” 513
     The “Absolutist” View of the First Amendment, With a Note
on “Preferred Position”.—During much of this period, the opposi-
tion to the balancing test was led by Justices Black and Douglas,
who espoused what may be called an “absolutist” position, denying
the government any power to abridge speech. But the beginnings
of such a philosophy may be gleaned in much earlier cases in which
a rule of decision based on a preference for First Amendment liber-
ties was prescribed. Thus, Chief Justice Stone in his famous Carolene
Products “footnote 4” suggested that the ordinary presumption of
constitutionality that prevailed when economic regulation was in is-
sue might be reversed when legislation is challenged that restricts
“those political processes which can ordinarily be expected to bring
about repeal of undesirable legislation,” or that reflects “prejudice
against discreet and insular minorities . . . tend[ing] seriously to
curtail the operation of those political processes ordinarily to be re-
lied upon to protect minorities.” 514 Then, in Murdock v. Pennsylva-
nia,515 in striking down a license tax on religious colporteurs, the
Court remarked that “[f]reedom of press, freedom of speech, free-
dom of religion are in a preferred position.” Two years later the Court
indicated that its decision with regard to the constitutionality of
legislation regulating individuals is “delicate . . . [especially] where
the usual presumption supporting legislation is balanced by the pre-
ferred place given in our scheme to the great, the indispensable demo-
cratic freedoms secured by the First Amendment. . . . That prior-
ity gives these liberties a sanctity and a sanction not permitting
    513  389 U.S. at 268 n.20.
    514  United States v. Carolene Products Co., 304 U.S. 144, 152 n.4 (1938). In other
words, whereas economic regulation need have merely a rational basis to be consti-
tutional, legislation of the sort to which Chief Justice Stone referred might be sub-
ject to “more exacting judicial scrutiny under the general prohibitions of the Four-
teenth Amendment . . . .” Id. Justice Powell later wrote that footnote 4 “is recognized
as a primary source of ‘strict scrutiny’ judicial review.” Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Carolene
Products Revisited, 82 Columbia L. Rev. 1087, 1088 (1982).
     515 319 U.S. 105, 115 (1943). See also West Virginia State Bd. of Educ. v. Barnette,

319 U.S. 624, 639 (1943).
