                RELIGION AND FREE EXPRESSION


                            FIRST AMENDMENT

    Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of
religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the
freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peace-
ably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress
of grievances.

                                             RELIGION

        An Overview
            Madison’s original proposal for a bill of rights provision concern-
        ing religion read: “The civil rights of none shall be abridged on ac-
        count of religious belief or worship, nor shall any national religion
        be established, nor shall the full and equal rights of conscience be
        in any manner, or on any pretence, infringed.” 1 The language was
        altered in the House to read: “Congress shall make no law estab-
        lishing religion, or to prevent the free exercise thereof, or to in-
        fringe the rights of conscience.” 2 In the Senate, the section adopted
        read: “Congress shall make no law establishing articles of faith, or
        a mode of worship, or prohibiting the free exercise of reli-
        gion. . . .” 3 It was in the conference committee of the two bodies,
        chaired by Madison, that the present language was written with

            1  1 ANNALS OF CONGRESS 434 (June 8, 1789).
            2  The committee appointed to consider Madison’s proposals, and on which Madi-
        son served, with Vining as chairman, had rewritten the religion section to read: “No
        religion shall be established by law, nor shall the equal rights of conscience be in-
        fringed.” After some debate during which Madison suggested that the word “na-
        tional” might be inserted before the word “religion” as “point[ing] the amendment
        directly to the object it was intended to prevent,” the House adopted a substitute
        reading: “Congress shall make no laws touching religion, or infringing the rights of
        conscience.” 1 ANNALS OF CONGRESS 729–31 (August 15, 1789). On August 20, on mo-
        tion of Fisher Ames, the language of the clause as quoted in the text was adopted.
        Id. at 766. According to Madison’s biographer, “[t]here can be little doubt that this
        was written by Madison.” I. BRANT, JAMES MADISON: FATHER OF THE CONSTITUTION 1787–
        1800 at 271 (1950).
             3 This text, taken from the Senate Journal of September 9, 1789, appears in 2

        THE BILL OF RIGHTS: A DOCUMENTARY HISTORY 1153 (B. Schwartz ed., 1971). It was at
        this point that the religion clauses were joined with the freedom of expression clauses.
