individuals for the harm inflicted on them by defamatory false-
hoods. An individual’s right to the protection of his own good name
is, at bottom, but a reflection of our society’s concept of the worth
of the individual. Therefore, an accommodation must be reached.
The Times rule had been a proper accommodation when public offi-
cials or public figures were concerned, inasmuch as by their own
efforts they had brought themselves into the public eye, had cre-
ated a need in the public for information about them, and had at
the same time attained an ability to counter defamatory falsehoods
published about them. Private individuals are not in the same po-
sition and need greater protection. “We hold that, so long as they
do not impose liability without fault, the States may define for them-
selves the appropriate standard of liability for a publisher or broad-
caster of defamatory falsehood injurious to a private indi-
vidual.” 1217 Thus, some degree of fault must be shown.
     Generally, juries may award substantial damages in tort for pre-
sumed injury to reputation merely upon a showing of publication.
But this discretion of juries had the potential to inhibit the exer-
cise of freedom of the press, and moreover permitted juries to pe-
nalize unpopular opinion through the awarding of damages. There-
fore, defamation plaintiffs who do not prove actual malice—that is,
knowledge of falsity or reckless disregard for the truth—will be lim-
ited to compensation for actual provable injuries, such as out-of-
pocket loss, impairment of reputation and standing, personal hu-
miliation, and mental anguish and suffering. A plaintiff who proves
actual malice will be entitled as well to collect punitive dam-
ages.1218
     Subsequent cases have revealed a trend toward narrowing the
scope of the “public figure” concept. A socially prominent litigant in
a particularly messy divorce controversy was held not to be such a
person,1219 and a person convicted years before of contempt after
failing to appear before a grand jury was similarly not a public fig-
ure even as to commentary with respect to his conviction.1220 Also
not a public figure for purposes of allegedly defamatory comment
about the value of his research was a scientist who sought and re-
ceived federal grants for research, the results of which were pub-
lished in scientific journals.1221 Public figures, the Court reiterated,
are those who (1) occupy positions of such persuasive power and
    1217  418 U.S. at 347.
    1218  418 U.S. at 348–50. Justice Brennan would have adhered to Rosenbloom,
id. at 361, while Justice White thought the Court went too far in constitutionalizing
the law of defamation. Id. at 369.
     1219 Time, Inc. v. Firestone, 424 U.S. 448 (1976).
     1220 Wolston v. Reader’s Digest Ass’n, 443 U.S. 157 (1979).
     1221 Hutchinson v. Proxmire, 443 U.S. 111 (1979).
