its somewhat more indefinite “respecting” phraseology.4 Debate in
Congress lends little assistance in interpreting the religion clauses;
Madison’s position, as well as that of Jefferson, who influenced him,
is fairly clear,5 but the intent, insofar as there was one, of the oth-
ers in Congress who voted for the language and those in the states
who voted to ratify is subject to speculation.
     Scholarly Commentary.—The explication of the religion clauses
by scholars in the nineteenth century gave a restrained sense of
their meaning. Story, who thought that “the right of a society or
government to interfere in matters of religion will hardly be con-
tested by any persons, who believe that piety, religion, and moral-
ity are intimately connected with the well being of the state, and
indispensable to the administration of civil justice,” 6 looked upon
the prohibition simply as an exclusion from the Federal Govern-
ment of all power to act upon the subject. “The situation . . . of the
different states equally proclaimed the policy, as well as the neces-
sity of such an exclusion. In some of the states, episcopalians con-
stituted the predominant sect; in others presbyterians; in others,
congregationalists; in others, quakers; and in others again, there
was a close numerical rivalry among contending sects. It was im-
possible, that there should not arise perpetual strife and perpetual
jealousy on the subject of ecclesiastical ascendancy, if the national
government were left free to create a religious establishment. The
only security was in extirpating the power. But this alone would
have been an imperfect security, if it had not been followed up by a

     4 1 ANNALS OF CONGRESS 913 (September 24, 1789). The Senate concurred the same

day. See I. BRANT, JAMES MADISON: FATHER OF THE CONSTITUTION 1787–1800 at 271–72
(1950).
     5 During House debate, Madison told his fellow Members that “he apprehended

the meaning of the words to be, that Congress should not establish a religion, and
enforce the legal observation of it by law, nor compel men to worship God in any
Manner contrary to their conscience.” 1 ANNALS OF CONGRESS 730 (August 15, 1789).
That his conception of “establishment” was quite broad is revealed in his veto as
President in 1811 of a bill which in granting land reserved a parcel for a Baptist
Church in Salem, Mississippi; the action, explained President Madison, “comprises
a principle and precedent for the appropriation of funds of the United States for the
use and support of religious societies, contrary to the article of the Constitution which
declares that ‘Congress shall make no law respecting a religious establishment.’ ” 8
THE WRITINGS OF JAMES MADISON (G. Hunt, ed.) 132–33 (1904). Madison’s views were
no doubt influenced by the fight in the Virginia legislature in 1784–1785 in which
he successfully led the opposition to a tax to support teachers of religion in Virginia
and in the course of which he drafted his “Memorial and Remonstrance against Re-
ligious Assessments” setting forth his thoughts. Id. at 183–91; I. BRANT, JAMES MADI-
SON: THE NATIONALIST 1780–1787 at 343–55 (1948). Acting on the momentum of this
effort, Madison secured passage of Jefferson’s “Bill for Religious Liberty”. Id. at 354;
D. MALONE, JEFFERSON THE VIRGINIAN 274–280 (1948). The theme of the writings of both
was that it was wrong to offer public support of any religion in particular or of reli-
gion in general.
     6 3 J. STORY, COMMENTARIES ON THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 1865 (1833).
