attack on the Sedition Act 366 and the use by the Adams Administra-
tion of the Act to prosecute its political opponents,367 something of
a libertarian theory of freedom of speech and press,368 which, how-
ever much the Jeffersonians may have departed from it upon assum-
ing power,369 was to blossom into the theory undergirding Supreme
Court First Amendment jurisprudence in modern times. Full accep-
tance of the theory that the Amendment operates not only to bar
most prior restraints of expression but subsequent punishment of
all but a narrow range of expression, in political discourse and in-
deed in all fields of expression, dates from a quite recent period,
although the Court’s movement toward that position began in its
consideration of limitations on speech and press in the period fol-
lowing World War I.370 Thus, in 1907, Justice Holmes could ob-

     366 The Act, 1 Stat. 596 (1798), punished anyone who would “write, print, utter

or publish . . . any false, scandalous and malicious writing or writings against the
government of the United States, or either house of the Congress of the United States,
or the President of the United States, with intent to defame the said government,
or either house of the said Congress, or the said President, or to bring them, or
either of them, into contempt or disrepute.” See J. SMITH, FREEDOM’S FETTERS: THE ALIEN
AND SEDITION LAWS AND AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES (1956).
     367 Id. at 159 et seq.
     368 L. LEVY, LEGACY OF SUPPRESSION: FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND PRESS IN EARLY AMERICAN

HISTORY ch. 6 (1960); New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U.S. 254, 273–76 (1964).
But compare L. LEVY, EMERGENCE OF A FREE PRESS (1985), a revised and enlarged edi-
tion of LEGACY OF EXPRESSION, in which Professor Levy modifies his earlier views, ar-
guing that while the intention of the Framers to outlaw the crime of seditious libel,
in pursuit of a free speech principle, cannot be established and may not have been
the goal, there was a tradition of robust and rowdy expression during the period of
the framing that contradicts his prior view that a modern theory of free expression
did not begin to emerge until the debate over the Alien and Sedition Acts.
     369 L. LEVY, JEFFERSON AND CIVIL LIBERTIES: THE DARKER SIDE (1963). Thus President

Jefferson wrote to Governor McKean of Pennsylvania in 1803: “The federalists hav-
ing failed in destroying freedom of the press by their gag-law, seem to have at-
tacked it in an opposite direction; that is, by pushing its licentiousness and its lying
to such a degree of prostitution as to deprive it of all credit. . . . This is a danger-
ous state of things, and the press ought to be restored to its credibility if possible.
The restraints provided by the laws of the States are sufficient for this if applied.
And I have, therefore, long thought that a few prosecutions of the most prominent
offenders would have a wholesome effect in restoring the integrity of the presses.
Not a general prosecution, for that would look like persecution; but a selected one.”
9 WORKS OF THOMAS JEFFERSON 449 (P. Ford ed., 1905).
     370 New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U.S. 254 (1964), provides the principal

doctrinal justification for the development, although the results had long since been
fully applied by the Court. In Sullivan, Justice Brennan discerned in the controver-
sies over the Sedition Act a crystallization of “a national awareness of the central
meaning of the First Amendment,” id. at 273, which is that the “right of free public
discussion of the stewardship of public officials . . . [is] a fundamental principle of
the American form of government.” Id. at 275. This “central meaning” proscribes
either civil or criminal punishment for any but the most maliciously, knowingly false
criticism of government. “Although the Sedition Act was never tested in this Court,
the attack upon its validity has carried the day in the court of history. . . . [The
historical record] reflect[s] a broad consensus that the Act, because of the restraint
it imposed upon criticism of government and public officials, was inconsistent with
