court records and from a proceeding in open court.1257 Neverthe-
less, the Court in appearing to retreat from what had seemed to be
settled principle, that truth is a constitutionally required defense
in any defamation action, whether plaintiff be a public official, pub-
lic figure, or private individual, may have preserved for itself the
discretion to recognize a constitutionally permissible tort of inva-
sion of privacy through publication of truthful information.1258 But
in recognition of the conflicting interests—in expression and in pri-
vacy—it is evident that the judicial process in this area will be cau-
tious.
      Continuing to adhere to “limited principles that sweep no more
broadly than the appropriate context of the instant case,” the Court
invalidated an award of damages against a newspaper for printing
the name of a sexual assault victim lawfully obtained from a sher-
iff ’s department press release. The state was unable to demon-
strate that imposing liability served a “need” to further a state in-
terest of the highest order, since the same interest could have been
served by the more limited means of self regulation by the police,
since the particular per se negligence statute precluded inquiry into
the extent of privacy invasion (e.g., inquiry into whether the vic-
tim’s identity was already widely known), and since the statute singled


     1257 More specifically, the information was obtained “from judicial records which

are maintained in connection with a public prosecution and which themselves are
open to public inspection.” 420 U.S. at 491. There was thus involved both the First
Amendment and the traditional privilege of the press to report the events of judi-
cial proceedings. Id. at 493, 494–96.
     1258 Thus, Justice White for the Court noted that the defense of truth is consti-

tutionally required in suits by public officials or public figures. But “[t]he Court has
nevertheless carefully left open the question whether the First and Fourteenth Amend-
ments require that truth be recognized as a defense in a defamatory action brought
by a private person as distinguished from a public official or public figure.” 420 U.S.
at 490. If truth is not a constitutionally required defense, then it would be possible
for the states to make truthful defamation of private individuals actionable and, more
important, truthful reporting of matters that constitute invasions of privacy action-
able. See Brasco v. Reader’s Digest, 4 Cal.3d 520, 483 P.2d 34, 93 Cal. Rptr. 866
(1971); Commonwealth v. Wiseman, 356 Mass. 251, 249 N.E.2d 610 (1969), cert. de-
nied, 398 U.S. 960 (1970). Concurring in Cohn, 420 U.S. at 497, Justice Powell con-
tended that the question of truth as a constitutionally required defense was long
settled in the affirmative and that Gertz itself, which he wrote, was explainable on
no other basis. But he too would reserve the question of actionable invasions of pri-
vacy through truthful reporting. “In some instances state actions that are denomi-
nated actions in defamation may in fact seek to protect citizens from injuries that
are quite different from the wrongful damage to reputation flowing from false state-
ments of fact. In such cases, the Constitution may permit a different balance. And,
as today’s opinion properly recognizes, causes of action grounded in a State’s desire
to protect privacy generally implicate interests that are distinct from those pro-
tected by defamation actions.” 420 U.S. at 500.
