ing the fairness of the party’s nominating process, enabling it to
prescribe what that process must be.” 627
    A political party’s First Amendment right to limit its member-
ship as it wishes does not render invalid a state statute that al-
lows a candidate to designate his party preference on a ballot, even
when the candidate “is unaffiliated with, or even repugnant to, the
party” he designates.628 This is because the statute in question “never
refers to the candidates as nominees of any party, nor does it treat
them as such”; it merely allows them to indicate their party prefer-
ence.629 The Court acknowledged that “it is possible that voters will
misinterpret the candidates’ party-preference designations as reflect-
ing endorsement by the parties,” but “whether voters will be con-
fused by the party-preference designations will depend in signifi-
cant part on the form of the ballot.” 630 If the form of the ballot used
in a particular election is such as to confuse voters, then an as-
applied challenge to the statute may be appropriate, but a facial
challenge, the Court held, is not.631
    A significant extension of First Amendment association rights
in the political context occurred when the Court curtailed the al-
ready limited political patronage system. At first holding that a non-
policymaking, nonconfidential government employee cannot be dis-
     627 New York State Bd. of Elections v. Lopez Torres, 128 S. Ct. 791, 797–98 (2008)

(citations omitted). In Lopez Torres, the Court upheld a state statute that required
political parties to select judicial candidates at a convention of delegates chosen by
party members in a primary election, rather than to select candidates in direct pri-
mary elections. The statute was challenged by party members who had not been
selected and who claimed “that the convention process that follows the delegate elec-
tion does not give them a realistic chance to secure the party’s nomination.” Id. at
799. The Court rejected their challenge, holding that, although a state may require
“party-candidate selection through processes more favorable to insurgents, such as
primaries,” id. at 799, the Constitution does not demand that a state do so. “Party
conventions, with their attendant ‘smoke-filled rooms’ and domination by party lead-
ers, have long been an accepted manner of selecting party candidates.” Id. at 799.
The plaintiffs had an associational right to join the party but not to have a certain
degree of influence in the party. Id. at 798.
     628 Washington State Grange v. Washington State Republican Party, 128 S. Ct.

1184, 1189 (2008). This was a 7-to-2 decision written by Justice Thomas, with Jus-
tices Scalia and Kennedy dissenting.
     629 128 S. Ct. at 1192.
     630 128 S. Ct. at 1193. The Court saw “simply no basis to presume that a well-

informed electorate will interpret a candidate’s party preference designation to mean
that the candidate is the party’s chosen nominee or representative or that the party
associates with or approves of the candidate.” Id.
     631 A ballot could avoid confusion by, for example, “includ[ing] prominent dis-

claimers explaining that party preference reflects only the self-designation of the
candidate and not an official endorsement by the party.” 128 S. Ct. at 1194. Justice
Scalia, joined by Justice Kennedy in dissent, wrote that “[a]n individual’s endorse-
ment of a party shapes the voter’s view of what the party stands for,” and that it is
“quite impossible for the ballot to satisfy a reasonable voter that the candidate is
‘not associated’ with the party for which he has expressed a preference.” Id. at 1200.
