duct that the ultimate good desired is better reached by free trade
in ideas—that the best test of truth is the power of the thought to
get itself accepted in the competition of the market, and that truth
is the only ground upon which their wishes safely can be carried
out. That at any rate is the theory of our Constitution.” 441 “Those
who won our independence believed that the final end of the State
was to make men free to develop their faculties; and that in its
government the deliberative forces should prevail over the arbi-
trary. They valued liberty both as an end and as a means. They
believed liberty to be the secret of happiness and courage to be the
secret of liberty. They believed that freedom to think as you will
and to speak as you think are means indispensable to the discov-
ery and spread of political truth; that without free speech and as-
sembly discussion would be futile; that with them, discussion af-
fords ordinarily adequate protection against the dissemination of
noxious doctrine; that the greatest menace to freedom is an inert
people; that public discussion is a political duty; and that this should
be a fundamental principle of the American government. They rec-
ognized the risks to which all human institutions are subject. But
they knew that order cannot be secured merely through fear of pun-
ishment for its infraction; that it is hazardous to discourage thought,
hope and imagination; that fear breeds repression; that repression
breeds hate; that hate menaces stable government; that the path
of safety lies in the opportunity to discuss freely supposed griev-
ances and proposed remedies; and that the fitting remedy for evil
counsels is good ones. Believing in the power of reason as applied
through public discussion, they eschewed silence coerced by law—
the argument of force in its worst form. Recognizing the occasional
tyrannies of governing majorities, they amended the Constitution
so that free speech and assembly should be guaranteed.” 442
    “But, although the rights of free speech and assembly are fun-
damental, they are not in their nature absolute. Their exercise is
subject to restriction, if the particular restriction proposed is re-
quired in order to protect the State from destruction or from seri-
ous injury, political, economic or moral.” 443 The fixing of a stan-
dard is necessary, by which to determine what degree of evil is
“sufficiently substantial to justify resort to abridgment of speech and
press and assembly as a means of protection” and how clear and

    441   Abrams v. United States, 250 U.S. 616, 630 (1919) (Justice Holmes dissent-
ing).
    442   Whitney v. California, 274 U.S. 357, 375–76 (1927) (Justice Brandeis concur-
ring).
    443   274 U.S. at 373.
