     Financial Assistance to Church-Related Institutions.—
The Court’s first opportunity to rule on the validity of governmen-
tal financial assistance to a religiously affiliated institution oc-
curred in 1899, the assistance being a federal grant for the construction
of a wing of a hospital owned and operated by a Roman Catholic
order that was to be devoted to the care of the poor. The Court viewed
the hospital primarily as a secular institution so chartered by Con-
gress and not as a religious or sectarian body, and thus avoided
the constitutional issue.58 But, when the right of local authorities
to provide free transportation for children attending parochial schools
reached the Court, it adopted a very broad view of the restrictions
imposed by the Establishment Clause. “The ‘establishment of reli-
gion’ clause of the First Amendment means at least this: Neither a
state nor the Federal Government can set up a church. Neither can
pass laws which aid one religion, aid all religions, or prefer one re-
ligion over another. Neither can force nor influence a person to go
to or to remain away from church against his will or force him to
profess a belief or disbelief in any religion. No person can be pun-
ished for entertaining or professing religious beliefs or disbeliefs,
for church attendance or non-attendance. No tax in any amount,
large or small, can be levied to support any religious activities or
institutions, whatever they may be called, or whatever form they
may adopt to teach or practice religion. Neither a state nor the Fed-
eral Government can, openly or secretly, participate in the affairs
of any religious organizations or groups and vice versa. In the words
of Jefferson, the clause against establishment of religion by law was
intended to erect ‘a wall of separation between church and State.’ ” 59
    But, despite this interpretation, the majority sustained the pro-
vision of transportation. Although recognizing that “it approaches
the verge” of the state’s constitutional power, Justice Black found
that the transportation was a form of “public welfare legislation”
that was being extended “to all its citizens without regard to their
religious belief.” 60 “It is undoubtedly true that children are helped
to get to church schools. There is even a possibility that some of
the children might not be sent to the church schools if the parents
were compelled to pay their children’s bus fares out of their own

    58 Bradfield v. Roberts, 175 U.S. 291 (1899). Cf. Abington School District v. Schempp,

374 U.S. 203, 246 (1963) (Justice Brennan concurring). In Cochran v. Louisiana Board
of Education, 281 U.S. 370 (1930), a state program furnishing textbooks to paro-
chial schools was sustained under a due process attack without reference to the First
Amendment. See also Quick Bear v. Leupp, 210 U.S. 50 (1908) (statutory limitation
on expenditures of public funds for sectarian education does not apply to treaty and
trust funds administered by the government for Indians).
    59 Everson v. Board of Education, 330 U.S. 1, 15–16 (1947).
    60 330 U.S. at 16.
