cal foundations, and hence proper interpretive framework, as has
the guanantee of freedom of expression.387 The argument has been
fought out among the commentators. “The outstanding fact about
the First Amendment today is that the Supreme Court has never
developed any comprehensive theory of what that constitutional guar-
antee means and how it should be applied in concrete cases.” 388
Some commentators argue on behalf of a complex of values, none
of which by itself is sufficient to support a broad-based protection
of freedom of expression.389 Others would limit the basis of the First
Amendment to only one among a constellation of possible values
and would therefore limit the coverage or the degree of protection
of the speech and press clauses.
    For example, one school of thought believes that, because of the
constitutional commitment to free self-government, only political speech
is within the core protected area,390 although some commentators
tend to define more broadly the concept of “political” than one might
suppose from the word alone. Others recur to the writings of Mil-
ton and Mill and argue that protecting speech, even speech in er-

     387 Although “expression” is not found in the text of the First Amendment, it is

used herein, first, as a shorthand term for the freedoms of speech, press, assembly,
petition, association, and the like, that are covered by the Amendment, and, second,
as a recognition of the fact that judicial interpretation of the clauses of the First
Amendment has greatly enlarged the definition commonly associated with “speech,”
as the following discussion will reveal. The term seems well settled, see, e.g., T. EM-
ERSON, THE SYSTEM OF FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (1970), although it has been criticized. F.
SCHAUER, FREE SPEECH: A PHILOSOPHICAL INQUIRY 50–52 (1982). The term also, as used
here, conflates the speech and press clauses, explicitly assuming they are governed
by the same standards of interpretation and that, in fact, the press clause itself
adds nothing significant to the speech clause as interpreted, an assumption briefly
defended in the next topic.
     388 T. EMERSON, THE SYSTEM OF FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION 15 (1970). The practice in

the Court is largely to itemize all the possible values the First Amendment has been
said to protect. See, e.g., Consolidated Edison Co. v. PSC, 447 U.S. 530, 534–35 (1980);
First Nati’l Bank of Boston v. Bellotti, 435 U.S. 765, 776–77 (1978).
     389 T. EMERSON, THE SYSTEM OF FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION 6–7 (1970). For Emerson,

the four values are (1) assuring individuals self-fulfillment, (2) promoting discovery
of truth, (3) providing for participation in decisionmaking by all members of society,
and (4) promoting social stability through discussion and compromise of differences.
For a persuasive argument in favor of an “eclectic” approach, see Shriffrin, The First
Amendment and Economic Regulation: Away From a General Theory of the First Amend-
ment, 78 NW. U.L. REV. 1212 (1983). A compressive discussion of all the theories may
be found in F. SCHAUER, FREE SPEECH: A PHILOSOPHICAL INQUIRY (1982).
     390 E.g., A. MEIKLEJOHN, POLITICAL FREEDOM (1960); Bork, Neutral Principles and

Some First Amendment Problems, 47 IND. L.J. 1 (1971); BeVier, The First Amend-
ment and Political Speech: An Inquiry Into the Substance and Limits of Principle,
30 STAN. L. REV. 299 (1978). This contention does not reflect the Supreme Court’s
view. “It is no doubt true that a central purpose of the First Amendment ‘was to
protect the free discussion of governmental affairs.’ . . . But our cases have never
suggested that expression about philosophical, social, artistic, economic, literary, or
ethical matters—to take a nonexclusive list of labels—is not entitled to full First
Amendment protection.” Abood v. Detroit Bd. of Educ., 431 U.S. 209, 231 (1977).
