sion in a variety of ways. Legitimate governmental interests may
be furthered by appropriately narrow regulation, and the Court’s
view of how narrow regulation must be is apparently influenced not
only by its view of the strength of the government’s interest in regu-
lation, but also by its view of the importance of the expression it-
self. In other words, sexually explicit expression does not receive
the same degree of protection afforded purely political speech.1346
    Government has a “compelling” interest in the protection of chil-
dren from seeing or hearing indecent material, but total bans appli-
cable to adults and children alike are constitutionally suspect.1347

     1346 Justice Scalia, concurring in Sable Communications v. FCC, 492 U.S. 115,

132 (1989), suggested that there should be a “sliding scale” taking into account the
definition of obscenity: “The more narrow the understanding of what is ‘obscene,’
and hence the more pornographic what is embraced within the residual category of
‘indecency,’ the more reasonable it becomes to insist upon greater assurance of insu-
lation from minors.” Barnes v. Glen Theatre, 501 U.S. 560 (1991), upholding regula-
tion of nude dancing even in the absence of a threat to minors, may illustrate a
general willingness by the Court to apply soft rather than strict scrutiny to regula-
tion of more sexually explicit expression.
     1347 See Sable Communications v. FCC, 492 U.S. 115 (1989) (FCC’s “dial-a-porn”

rules imposing a total ban on “indecent” speech are unconstitutional, given less re-
strictive alternatives—e.g., credit cards or user IDs—of preventing access by chil-
dren). Pacifica Foundation is distinguishable, the Court reasoned, because that case
did not involve a “total ban” on broadcast, and also because there is no “captive
audience” for the “dial-it” medium, as there is for the broadcast medium. 492 U.S.
at 127–28. Similar rules apply to regulation of cable TV. In Denver Area Educa-
tional Telecommunications Consortium v. FCC, 518 U.S. 727, 755 (1996), the Court,
acknowledging that protection of children from sexually explicit programming is a
“compelling” governmental interest (but refusing to determine whether strict scru-
tiny applies), nonetheless struck down a requirement that cable operators segregate
and block indecent programming on leased access channels. The segregate-and-
block restrictions, which included a requirement that a request for access be in writ-
ing, and which allowed for up to 30 days’ delay in blocking or unblocking a channel,
were not sufficiently protective of adults’ speech and viewing interests to be consid-
ered either narrowly or reasonably tailored to serve the government’s compelling in-
terest in protecting children. In United States v. Playboy Entertainment Group, Inc.,
529 U.S. 803 (2000), the Supreme Court, explicitly applying strict scrutiny to a content-
based speech restriction on cable TV, struck down a federal statute designed to “shield
children from hearing or seeing images resulting from signal bleed.” Id. at 806.
     The Court seems to be becoming less absolute in viewing the protection of all
minors (regardless of age) from all indecent material (regardless of its educational
value and parental approval) to be a compelling governmental interest. In striking
down the Communications Decency Act of 1996, the Court would “neither accept
nor reject the Government’s submission that the First Amendment does not forbid a
blanket prohibition on all ‘indecent’ and ‘patently offensive’ messages communicated
to a 17-year-old—no matter how much value the message may have and regardless
of parental approval. It is at least clear that the strength of the Government’s inter-
est in protecting minors is not equally strong throughout the coverage of this broad
statute.” Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union, 521 U.S. 844 (1997). In Playboy
Entertainment Group, 529 U.S. at 825, the Court wrote: “Even upon the assumption
that the government has an interest in substituting itself for informed and empow-
ered parents, its interest is not sufficiently compelling to justify this widespread re-
