placed in escrow and made available to victims of the crime.1079 Al-
though the Court recognized a compelling state interest in ensur-
ing that criminals do not profit from their crimes, and in compen-
sating crime victims, it found that the statute was not narrowly
tailored to those ends. The statute applied only to income derived
from speech, not to income from other sources, and it was signifi-
cantly overinclusive because it reached a wide range of literature
(e.g., the Confessions of Saint Augustine and Thoreau’s Civil Disobe-
dience) “that did not enable a criminal to profit from his crime while
a victim remains uncompensated” 1080
    Labor Relations.—Just as newspapers and other communica-
tions businesses are subject to nondiscriminatory taxation, they are
entitled to no immunity from the application of general laws regu-
lating their relations with their employees and prescribing wage and
hour standards. In Associated Press v. NLRB,1081 the application of
the National Labor Relations Act to a newsgathering agency was
found to raise no constitutional problem. “The publisher of a news-
paper has no special immunity from the application of general laws.
He has no special privilege to invade the rights and liberties of oth-
ers. . . . The regulation here in question has no relation whatever
to the impartial distribution of news.” Similarly, the Court has found
no problem with requiring newspapers to pay minimum wages and
observe maximum hours.1082
    Antitrust Laws.—Resort to the antitrust laws to break up re-
straints on competition in the newsgathering and publishing field
was found not only to present no First Amendment problem, but to
comport with the government’s obligation under that Amendment.
Justice Black wrote: “It would be strange indeed, however, if the
grave concern for freedom of the press which prompted adoption of
the First Amendment should be read as a command that the gov-
ernment was without power to protect that freedom. The First Amend-
ment, far from providing an argument against application of the
Sherman Act, here provides powerful reasons to the contrary. That
Amendment rests on the assumption that the widest possible dis-
semination of information from diverse and antagonistic sources is
essential to the welfare of the public, that a free press is a condi-
tion of a free society. Surely a command that the government itself
shall not impede the free flow of ideas does not afford non-
governmental combinations a refuge if they impose restraints upon
that constitutionally guaranteed freedom. Freedom to publish means
   1079 Simon & Schuster v. New York Crime Victims Bd., 502 U.S. 105 (1991).
   1080 502 U.S. at 122.
   1081 301 U.S. 103, 132 (1937).
   1082 Oklahoma Press Pub. Co. v. Walling, 327 U.S. 186 (1946).
