cast networks were constitutionally required to sell them broadcast-
ing time for the presentation of views on controversial issues. The
ruling terminated a broad drive to obtain that result, but the frag-
mented nature of the Court’s multiple opinions precluded a satisfac-
tory evaluation of the constitutional implications of the case. How-
ever, in CBS v. FCC,1095 the Court held that Congress had conferred
on candidates seeking federal elective office an affirmative, promptly
enforceable right of reasonable access to the use of broadcast sta-
tions, to be administered through FCC control over license revoca-
tions, and held such right of access to be within Congress’s power
to grant, the First Amendment notwithstanding. The constitutional
analysis was brief and merely restated the spectrum scarcity ratio-
nale and the role of the broadcasters as fiduciaries for the public
interest.
     In FCC v. League of Women Voters,1096 the Court took the same
general approach to governmental regulation of broadcasting, but
struck down a total ban on editorializing by stations receiving pub-
lic funding. In summarizing the principles guiding analysis in this
area, the Court reaffirmed that Congress may regulate in ways that
would be impermissible in other contexts, but indicated that broad-
casters are entitled to greater protection than may have been sug-
gested by Red Lion. “[A]lthough the broadcasting industry plainly
operates under restraints not imposed upon other media, the thrust
of these restrictions has generally been to secure the public’s First
Amendment interest in receiving a balanced presentation of views
on diverse matters of public concern. . . . [T]hese restrictions have
been upheld only when we were satisfied that the restriction is nar-
rowly tailored to further a substantial governmental interest.” 1097
However, the earlier cases were distinguished. “[I]n sharp contrast
to the restrictions upheld in Red Lion or in [CBS v. FCC], which
left room for editorial discretion and simply required broadcast edi-
tors to grant others access to the microphone, § 399 directly prohib-
its the broadcaster from speaking out on public issues even in a

     1095 453 U.S. 367 (1981). The dissent argued that the FCC had assumed, and

the Court had confirmed it in assuming, too much authority under the congressio-
nal enactment. In its view, Congress had not meant to do away with the traditional
deference to the editorial judgments of the broadcasters. Id. at 397 (Justices White,
Rehnquist, and Stevens).
     1096 468 U.S. 364 (1984), holding unconstitutional § 399 of the Public Broadcast-

ing Act of 1967, as amended. The decision was 5–4, with Justice Brennan’s opinion
for the Court being joined by Justices Marshall, Blackmun, Powell, and O’Connor,
and with Justices White, Rehnquist (joined by Chief Justice Burger and by Justice
White), and Stevens filing dissenting opinions.
     1097 468 U.S. at 380. The Court rejected the suggestion that only a “compelling”

rather than “substantial” governmental interest can justify restrictions.
