abortion-related speech; they merely require that the grantee keep
such activities separate and distinct from Title X activities. Title X
expressly distinguishes between a Title X grantee and a Title X proj-
ect. . . . The regulations govern the scope of the Title X project’s
activities, and leave the grantee unfettered in its other activi-
ties.” 989 The Court did allow that the application of this decision
might be limited outside of the particular facts of the case.990
     The Court has also suggested that there are limits to what se-
lection criteria the government can use to ensure that a recipient
of federal funds has views consistent with the purposes of the pro-
gram. In National Endowment for the Arts v. Finley, the Supreme
Court upheld the constitutionality of a federal statute requiring the
NEA, in awarding grants, to “tak[e] into consideration general stan-
dards of decency and respect for the diverse beliefs and values of
the American public.” 991 In Finley, grant applicants for federal arts
funding were denied art funding, allegedly based on the controver-
sial nature of their art. The Court acknowledged that, if the stat-
ute were “applied in a manner that raises concern about the sup-
pression of disfavored viewpoints,” 992 then such application might
be unconstitutional. This was not the result in this case, however,
as the statute on its face “impose[d] no categorical requirement,”
being merely “advisory.” 993 The Court also found that the terms of
     989 500 U.S. at 196 (emphasis in original). Dissenting Justice Blackmun wrote:

“Under the majority’s reasoning, the First Amendment could be read to tolerate any
governmental restriction is limited to the funded workplace. This is a dangerous
proposition, and one the Court has rightly rejected in the past.” Id. at 213 (empha-
sis in original).
     990 The Court attempted to minimize the potential sweep of its ruling in Rust.

“This is not to suggest that funding by the Government, even when coupled with
the freedom of the fund recipient to speak outside the scope of the Government-
funded project, is invariably sufficient to justify government control over the content
of expression.” 500 U.S. at 199. The Court noted several possible exceptions to the
general principle: government ownership of a public forum does not justify restric-
tions on speech; the university setting requires heightened protections through ap-
plication of vagueness and overbreadth principles; and the doctor-patient relation-
ship may also be subject to special First Amendment protection. (The Court denied,
however, that the doctor-patient relationship was significantly impaired by the regu-
latory restrictions at issue.) Lower courts were quick to pick up on these sugges-
tions. See, e.g., Stanford Univ. v Sullivan, 773 F. Supp. 472, 476–78 (D.D.C. 1991)
(confidentiality clause in federal grant research contract is invalid because, inter alia,
of application of vagueness principles in a university setting); Gay Men’s Health Cri-
sis v. Sullivan, 792 F. Supp. 278 (S.D.N.Y. 1992) (“offensiveness” guidelines restrict-
ing Center for Disease Control grants for preparation of AIDS-related educational
materials are unconstitutionally vague).
     991 524 U.S. 569, 572 (1998).
     992 524 U.S. at 587.
     993 524 U.S. at 581. “Any content-based considerations that may be taken into

account in the grant-making process are a consequence of the nature of arts fund-
ing. . . . The ‘very assumption’ of the NEA is that grants will be awarded according
to the ‘artistic worth of competing applications,’ and absolute neutrality is simply
