names of children released from the public schools who did not re-
port for religious instruction; children not released remained in the
classrooms for regular studies. The Court found the differences be-
tween this program and the program struck down in McCollum to
be constitutionally significant. Unlike McCollum, where “the class-
rooms were used for religious instruction and force of the public
school was used to promote that instruction,” religious instruction
was conducted off school premises and “the public schools do no more
than accommodate their schedules.” 159 “We are a religious people
whose institutions presuppose a Supreme Being,” Justice Douglas
wrote for the Court. “When the state encourages religious instruc-
tion or cooperates with religious authorities by adjusting the sched-
ule of public events to sectarian needs, it follows the best of our
traditions. For it then respects the religious nature of our people
and accommodates the public service to their spiritual needs. To hold
that it may not would be to find in the Constitution a requirement
that the government show a callous indifference to religious groups.
That would be preferring those who believe in no religion over those
who do believe.”
    Governmental Encouragement of Religion in Public Schools:
Prayers and Bible Reading.—Upon recommendation of the state
governing board, a local New York school required each class to be-
gin each school day by reading aloud the following prayer in the
presence of the teacher: “Almighty God, we acknowledge our depen-
dence upon Thee, and we beg Thy blessing upon us, our parents,
our teachers and our country.” Students who wished to do so could
remain silent or leave the room. The Court wrote: “We think that
by using its public school system to encourage recitation of the Re-
gents’ prayer, the State of New York has adopted a practice wholly
inconsistent with the Establishment Clause. There can, of course,
be no doubt that New York’s program of daily classroom invocation
of God’s blessings as prescribed in the Regents’ prayer is a reli-
gious activity. . . . [W]e think that the constitutional prohibition
against laws respecting an establishment of religion must at least
mean that in this country it is no part of the business of govern-
ment to compose official prayers for any group of the American people
to recite as a part of a religious program carried on by govern-
ment.” 160 “Neither the fact that the prayer may be denomination-
ally neutral nor the fact that its observance on the part of the stu-
     159 343 U.S. at 315. See also Abington School Dist. v. Schempp, 374 U.S. 203,

261–63 (1963) (Justice Brennan concurring) (suggesting that the important distinc-
tion was that “the McCollum program placed the religious instruction in the public
school classroom in precisely the position of authority held by the regular teachers
of secular subjects, while the Zorach program did not”).
     160 Engel v. Vitale, 370 U.S. 421, 424, 425 (1962).
