dant was held protected in Richmond Newspapers v. Virginia,946 but
the Justices could not agree upon a majority rationale that would
permit principled application of the holding to other areas in which
access is sought.
     Chief Justice Burger pronounced the judgment of the Court, but
his opinion was joined by only two other Justices (and one of them
in a separate concurrence drew conclusions probably going beyond
the Chief Justice’s opinion).947 Basic to the Chief Justice’s view was
an historical treatment that demonstrated that trials were tradition-
ally open. This openness, moreover, was no “quirk of history” but
“an indispensable attribute of an Anglo-American trial.” This char-
acteristic flowed from the public interest in seeing fairness and proper
conduct in the administration of criminal trials; the “therapeutic
value” to the public of seeing its criminal laws in operation, purg-
ing the society of the outrage felt at the commission of many crimes,
convincingly demonstrated why the tradition had developed and been
maintained. Thus, “a presumption of openness inheres in the very
nature of a criminal trial under our system of justice.” The presump-
tion has more than custom to command it. “[I]n the context of tri-
als . . . the First Amendment guarantees of speech and press, stand-
ing alone, prohibit government from summarily closing courtroom
doors which had long been open to the public at the time that amend-
ment was adopted.” 948
    Justice Brennan, joined by Justice Marshall, followed a signifi-
cantly different route to the same conclusion. In his view, “the First
Amendment . . . has a structural role to play in securing and fos-
tering our republican system of self-government. Implicit in this struc-
tural role is not only ‘the principle that debate on public issues should
be uninhibited, robust, and wide-open,’ but the antecedent assump-
tion that valuable public debate—as well as other civic behavior—
must be informed. The structural model links the First Amend-
ment to that process of communication necessary for a democracy
to survive, and thus entails solicitude not only for communication
itself but also for the indispensable conditions of meaningful com-
munication.” 949

     946 448 U.S. 555 (1980). The decision was 7 to 1, with Justice Rehnquist dissent-

ing, id. at 604, and Justice Powell not participating. Justice Powell, however, had
taken the view in Gannett Co. v. DePasquale, 443 U.S. 368, 397 (1979) (concurring),
that the First Amendment did protect access to trials.
     947 See Richmond Newspapers v. Virginia, 448 U.S. 555, 582 (1980) (Justice Ste-

vens concurring).
     948 448 U.S. at 564–69. The emphasis on experience and history was repeated

by the Chief Justice in his opinion for the Court in Press-Enterprise Co. v. Superior
Court, 478 U.S. 1 (1986) (Press-Enterprise II).
     949 448 U.S. at 587–88 (emphasis in original, citations omitted).
