As a result, a splintered Court failed to reach the merits of the un-
derlying challenge, and instead remanded the case for further con-
sideration.243
     Miscellaneous.—In Larkin v. Grendel’s Den,244 the Court held
that the Establishment Clause is violated by a delegation of govern-
mental decisionmaking to churches. At issue was a state statute
permitting any church or school to block issuance of a liquor li-
cense to any establishment located within 500 feet of the church or
school. Although the statute had a permissible secular purpose of
protecting churches and schools from the disruptions often associ-
ated with liquor establishments, the Court indicated that these pur-
poses could be accomplished by other means, e.g., an outright ban
on liquor outlets within a prescribed distance, or the vesting of dis-
cretionary authority in a governmental decisionmaker required to
consider the views of affected parties. However, the conferral of a
veto authority on churches had a primary effect of advancing reli-
gion both because the delegation was standardless (thereby permit-
ting a church to exercise the power to promote parochial interests),
and because “the mere appearance of a joint exercise of legislative
authority by Church and State provides a significant symbolic ben-
efit to religion in the minds of some.” 245 Moreover, the Court deter-
mined, because the veto “enmeshes churches in the exercise of sub-
stantial governmental powers,” it represented an entanglement

eral court of appeals ordered the removal of the cross, holding that a reasonable
observer would perceive a cross on federal land as governmental endorsement of re-
ligion, Buono v. Norton, 371 F.3d 543 (9th Cir. 2004), and the government did not
seek review of this decision. Subsequently, the court of appeals affirmed a lower court
injunction against the transfer of land to the VFW, holding that the underlying stat-
ute was an invalid attempt to keep the cross in its existing location. Buono v.
Kempthorne, 502 F.3d 1069 (9th Cir. 2007).
     243 Justice Kennedy, joined in full by Chief Justice Roberts and in part by Jus-

tice Alito, found that the plaintiff, based on the existing injunction, had standing to
challenge the land transfer. The case, however, was remanded to the district court
to consider the legitimate congressional interest in reconciling Establishment Clause
concerns with respect for the commemoration of military veterans, id. at 10–13, and
to evaluate whether the land transfer would lead a “reasonable observer” to per-
ceive government endorsement of religion. Id. at 16–17. Justice Alito would have
upheld the land transfer, suggesting that a reasonable observer deemed to be aware
of the history and all other pertinent facts relating to a challenged display would
not find the transfer to be an endorsement of religion. Id. at 6 (Alito, J., concurring
in part and in judgement). Justice Scalia, joined by Justice Thomas, held that the
plaintiff had no standing to seek the expansion of the existing injunction to the dis-
play of the cross on private lands. Id. at 3–6 (Scalia, J., concurring in judgement).
     244 459 U.S. 116 (1982).
     245 459 U.S. at 125–26. But cf. Marsh v. Chambers, 463 U.S. 783 (1983), involv-

ing no explicit consideration of the possible symbolic implication of opening legisla-
tive sessions with prayers by paid chaplains.
