mit school property to be used for the presentation of all views about
family issues and child-rearing except those dealing with the sub-
ject matter from a religious viewpoint.” In response to the school
district’s claim that the Establishment Clause required it to deny
use of its facilities to a religious group, the Court said that there
was “no realistic danger” in this instance that “the community would
think that the District was endorsing religion or any particular creed”
and that such permission would satisfy the requirements of the Lemon
test.186 Similarly, in Good News Club v. Milford Central School,187
the Court held the free speech clause to be violated by a school policy
that barred a religious children’s club from meeting on school prem-
ises after school. Given that other groups teaching morals and char-
acter development to young children were allowed to use the school’s
facilities, the exclusion, the Court said, “constitutes unconstitu-
tional viewpoint discrimination.” Moreover, it said, the school had
“no valid Establishment Clause interest” because permitting the re-
ligious club to meet would not show any favoritism toward religion
but would simply “ensure neutrality.”
     Finally, the Court has made clear that public colleges may not
exclude student religious organizations from benefits otherwise pro-
vided to a full spectrum of student “news, information, opinion, en-
tertainment, or academic communications media groups.” In
Rosenberger v. Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia,188 the
Court struck down a university policy that afforded a school sub-
sidy to all student publications except religious ones. Once again,
the Court held the denial of the subsidy to constitute viewpoint dis-
crimination in violation of the free speech clause of the First Amend-
ment. In response to the University’s argument that the Establish-
ment Clause required it not to subsidize an enterprise that promotes
religion, the Court emphasized that the forum created by the Uni-
versity’s subsidy policy had neither the purpose nor the effect of
advancing religion and, because it was open to a variety of view-
points, was neutral toward religion.
     These cases make clear that the Establishment Clause does not
necessarily trump the First Amendment’s protection of freedom of
speech. In regulating private speech in a public forum, government
    186 508 U.S. at 395. Concurring opinions by Justice Scalia, joined by Justice Thomas,

and by Justice Kennedy, criticized the Court’s reference to Lemon. Justice Scalia
lamented that “[l]ike some ghoul in a late-night horror movie that repeatedly sits
up in its grave and shuffles abroad, after being repeatedly killed and buried, Lemon
stalks our Establishment Clause jurisprudence once again, frightening the little chil-
dren and school attorneys of Center Moriches Union Free School District.” Id. at
398. Justice White pointedly noted, however, that “Lemon . . . has not been over-
ruled.” Id at 395 n.7.
    187 533 U.S. 98 (2001).
    188 515 U.S. 819 (1995).
