To subject the press to the restrictive power of a licenser, as was
formerly done, both before and since the Revolution, is to subject
all freedom of sentiment to the prejudices of one man, and make
him the arbitrary and infallible judge of all controverted points in
learning, religion and government. But to punish as the law does
at present any dangerous or offensive writings, which, when pub-
lished, shall on a fair and impartial trial be adjudged of a perni-
cious tendency, is necessary for the preservation of peace and good
order, of government and religion, the only solid foundations of civil
liberty. Thus, the will of individuals is still left free: the abuse only
of that free will is the object of legal punishment. Neither is any
restraint hereby laid upon freedom of thought or inquiry; liberty of
private sentiment is still left; the disseminating, or making public,
of bad sentiments, destructive to the ends of society, is the crime
which society corrects.” 364
    Whatever the general unanimity on this proposition at the time
of the proposal of and ratification of the First Amendment,365 it ap-
pears that there emerged in the course of the Jeffersonian counter-


     364 4 W. BLACKSTONE’S COMMENTARIES ON THE LAWS OF ENGLAND 151–52 (T. Cooley, 2d

rev. ed. 1872). See 3 J. STORY, COMMENTARIES ON THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES
1874–86 (1833). The most comprehensive effort to assess theory and practice in the
period prior to and immediately following adoption of the Amendment is L. LEVY,
LEGACY OF SUPPRESSION: FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND PRESS IN EARLY AMERICAN HISTORY (1960),
which generally concluded that the Blackstonian view was the prevailing one at the
time and probably the understanding of those who drafted, voted for, and ratified
the Amendment.
     365 It would appear that Madison advanced libertarian views earlier than his

Jeffersonian compatriots, as witness his leadership of a move to refuse officially to
concur in Washington’s condemnation of “[c]ertain self-created societies,” by which
the President meant political clubs supporting the French Revolution, and his suc-
cess in deflecting the Federalist intention to censure such societies. I. BRANT, JAMES
MADISON: FATHER OF THE CONSTITUTION 1787–1800 at 416–20 (1950). “If we advert to the
nature of republican government,” Madison told the House, “we shall find that the
censorial power is in the people over the government, and not in the government
over the people.” 4 ANNALS OF CONGRESS 934 (1794). On the other hand, the early Madi-
son, while a member of his county’s committee on public safety, had enthusiastically
promoted prosecution of Loyalist speakers and the burning of their pamphlets dur-
ing the Revolutionary period. 1 PAPERS OF JAMES MADISON 147, 161–62, 190–92 (W.
Hutchinson & W. Rachal, eds., 1962). There seems little doubt that Jefferson held to
the Blackstonian view. Writing to Madison in 1788, he said: “A declaration that the
Federal Government will never restrain the presses from printing anything they please,
will not take away the liability of the printers for false facts printed.” 13 PAPERS OF
THOMAS JEFFERSON 442 (J. Boyd ed., 1955). Commenting a year later to Madison on
his proposed amendment, Jefferson suggested that the free speech-free press clause
might read something like: “The people shall not be deprived or abridged of their
right to speak, to write or otherwise to publish anything but false facts affecting
injuriously the life, liberty, property, or reputation of others or affecting the peace of
the confederacy with foreign nations.” 15 PAPERS, supra, at 367.
