primary effect prong of the Lemon test, the Court asserted, is reli-
gious neutrality, i.e., whether “aid is allocated on the basis of neu-
tral, secular criteria that neither favor nor disfavor religion, and is
made available to both religious and secular beneficiaries on a non-
discriminatory basis.” 116 Finding the Title I program to meet that
test, the Court concluded that “accordingly, we must acknowledge
that Aguilar, as well as the portion of Ball addressing Grand Rap-
ids’ Shared Time program, are no longer good law.” 117
     Later, in Mitchell v. Helms 118 the Court abandoned the presump-
tions that religious elementary and secondary schools are so perva-
sively sectarian that they are constitutionally ineligible to partici-
pate in public aid programs directly benefiting their educational
functions and that direct aid to such institutions must be subject
to an intrusive and constitutionally fatal monitoring. At issue in the
case was a federal program that distributed funds to local educa-
tional agencies to provide instructional materials and equipment,
such as computer hardware and software, library books, movie pro-
jectors, television sets, VCRs, laboratory equipment, maps, and cas-
sette recordings, to public and private elementary and secondary
schools. Virtually identical programs had previously been held un-
constitutional by the Court in Meek v. Pittenger 119 and Wolman v.
Walter.120 But in this case the Court overturned those decisions and
held the program to be constitutional.
     Mitchell had no majority opinion. The opinions of Justice Thomas,
joined by Chief Justice Rehnquist and Justices Scalia and Ken-
nedy, and of Justice O’Connor, joined by Justice Breyer, found the
program constitutional. They agreed that to pass muster under the
primary effect prong of the Lemon test direct public aid has to be
secular in nature and distributed on the basis of religiously neu-
tral criteria. They also agreed, in contrast to past rulings, that sec-
tarian elementary and secondary schools should not be deemed con-
stitutionally ineligible for direct aid on the grounds that their secular
educational functions are “inextricably intertwined” with their reli-
     116 In Agostini, the Court nominally eliminated entanglement as a separate prong

of the Lemon test. “[T]he factors we use to assess whether an entanglement is ‘ex-
cessive,’ ” the Court stated, “are similar to the factors we use to examine ‘effect.’ ”
“Thus,” it concluded, “it is simplest to recognize why entanglement is significant and
treat it—as we did in Walz—as an aspect of the inquiry into a statute’s effect.” 521
U.S. at 232, 233.
     117 Justice Souter, joined by Justices Stevens and Ginsburg, dissented from the

Court’s ruling, contending that the Establishment Clause mandates a “flat ban on
[the] subsidization” of religion (521 U.S. at 243) and that the Court’s contention that
recent cases had undermined the reasoning of Aguilar was a “mistaken reading” of
the cases. Id. at 248. Justice Breyer joined in the second dissenting argument.
     118 530 U.S. 793 (2000).
     119 421 U.S. 349 (1975).
     120 433 U.S. 229 (1977).
