ers, and buyers. Any person or organization with a computer con-
nected to the Internet can ‘publish’ information.” 1431
    Quasi-Public Places.—The First Amendment precludes gov-
ernment restraint of expression and it does not require individuals
to turn over their homes, businesses, or other property to those wish-
ing to communicate about a particular topic.1432 But it may be that
in some instances private property is so functionally akin to public
property that private owners may not forbid expression upon it. In
Marsh v. Alabama,1433 the Court held that the private owner of a
company town could not forbid distribution of religious materials
by a Jehovah’s Witness on a street in the town’s business district.
The town, wholly owned by a private corporation, had all the attri-
butes of any American municipality, aside from its ownership, and
was functionally like any other town. In those circumstances, the
Court reasoned, “the more an owner, for his advantage, opens up
his property for use by the public in general, the more do his rights
become circumscribed by the statutory and constitutional rights of
those who use it.” 1434 This precedent lay unused for some twenty
years until the Court first indicated a substantial expansion of it,
and then withdrew to a narrow interpretation.
     1431 521 U.S. at 853. A federal court of appeals wrote: “Aspects of cyberspace

may, in fact, fit into the public forum category, although the Supreme Court has
also suggested that the category is limited by tradition. Compare Forbes, 523 U.S.
at 679 (‘reject[ing] the view that traditional public forum status extends beyond its
historic confines’ [to a public television station]) with Reno v. ACLU, 521 U.S. 844,
851–53 (1997) (recognizing the communicative potential of the Internet, specifically
the World Wide Web).” Putnam Pit, Inc. v. City of Cookeville, 221 F.3d 834, 843 (6th
Cir. 2000) (alternate citations to Forbes and Reno omitted). In Putnam Pit, the city
denied a private Web site’s request that the city’s Web site establish a hyperlink to
it, even though the city’s Web site had established hyperlinks to other private Web
sites. The court of appeals found that the city’s Web site was a nonpublic forum, but
that even nonpublic forums must be viewpoint neutral, so it remanded the case for
trial on the question of whether the city’s denial of a hyperlink had discriminated
on the basis of viewpoint.
     1432 In Garner v. Louisiana, 368 U.S. 157, 185, 201–07 (1961), Justice Harlan,

concurring, would have reversed breach of the peace convictions of “sit-in” demon-
strators who conducted their sit-in at lunch counters of department stores. He as-
serted that the protesters were sitting at the lunch counters where they knew they
would not be served in order to demonstrate that segregation at such counters ex-
isted. “Such a demonstration . . . is as much a part of the ‘free trade in ideas’ . . .
as is verbal expression, more commonly thought of as ‘speech.’ ” Conviction for breach
of peace was void in the absence of a clear and present danger of disorder. The Jus-
tice would not, however protect “demonstrations conducted on private property over
the objection of the owner . . . , just as it would surely not encompass verbal expres-
sion in a private home if the owner has not consented.” He had read the record to
indicate that the demonstrators were invitees in the stores and that they had never
been asked to leave by the owners or managers. See also Frisby v. Schultz, 487 U.S.
474 (1988) (government may protect residential privacy by prohibiting altogether pick-
eting that targets a single residence).
     1433 326 U.S. 501 (1946).
     1434 326 U.S. at 506.
