               RIGHTS OF ASSEMBLY AND PETITION

Background and Development
     The right of petition took its rise from the modest provision made
for it in chapter 61 of the Magna Carta (1215).1552 To this meager
beginning are traceable, in some measure, Parliament itself and its
procedures for the enactment of legislation, the equity jurisdiction
of the Lord Chancellor, and proceedings against the Crown by “pe-
tition of right.” Thus, while the King summoned Parliament for the
purpose of supply, the latter—but especially the House of Commons—
petitioned the King for a redress of grievances as its price for meet-
ing the financial needs of the Monarch, and as it increased in im-
portance, it came to claim the right to dictate the form of the King’s
reply, until, in 1414, Commons declared itself to be “as well assent-
ers as petitioners.” Two hundred and fifty years later, in 1669, Com-
mons further resolved that every commoner in England possessed
“the inherent right to prepare and present petitions” to it “in case
of grievance,” and of Commons “to receive the same” and to judge
whether they were “fit” to be received. Finally Chapter 5 of the Bill
of Rights of 1689 asserted the right of the subjects to petition the
King and “all commitments and prosecutions for such petitioning
to be illegal.” 1553
    Historically, therefore, the right of petition is the primary right,
the right peaceably to assemble a subordinate and instrumental right,
as if the First Amendment read: “the right of the people peaceably
to assemble” in order to “petition the government.” 1554 Today, how-
ever, the right of peaceable assembly is, in the language of the Court,
“cognate to those of free speech and free press and is equally fun-
damental. . . . [It] is one that cannot be denied without violating
those fundamental principles of liberty and justice which lie at the
base of all civil and political institutions,—principles which the Four-
teenth Amendment embodies in the general terms of its due pro-
cess clause. . . . The holding of meetings for peaceable political ac-
tion cannot be proscribed. Those who assist in the conduct of such
meetings cannot be branded as criminals on that score. The ques-
tion . . . is not as to the auspices under which the meeting is held
but as to its purpose; not as to the relations of the speakers, but
constitutional amendments to allow Congress or the states to prohibit flag desecra-
tion have been proposed. In each Congress from the 104th through the 109th (1995–
2006), the House passed such a proposal, but the Senate either rejected it or did not
vote on it.
     1552 C. STEPHENSON & F. MARCHAM, SOURCES OF ENGLISH CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY 125

(1937).
     1553 12 ENCYCLOPEDIA OF THE SOCIAL SCIENCES 98 (1934).
     1554 United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U.S. 542, 552 (1876), reflects this view.
