noted; statutory religious-practice exceptions are permissible, but
not “constitutionally required.” 272 The result is tantamount to a re-
turn to the Reynolds belief-conduct distinction. 273
     The Mormon Cases.—The Court’s first encounter with free ex-
ercise claims occurred in a series of cases in which the Federal Gov-
ernment and the territories moved against the Mormons because
of their practice of polygamy. Actual prosecutions and convictions
for bigamy presented little problem for the Court, as it could distin-
guish between beliefs and acts.274 But the presence of large num-
bers of Mormons in some of the territories made convictions for bigamy
difficult to obtain, and in 1882 Congress enacted a statute that barred
“bigamists,” “polygamists,” and “any person cohabiting with more
than one woman” from voting or serving on juries. The Court sus-
tained the law, even as applied to persons entering the state prior
to enactment of the original law prohibiting bigamy and to persons
as to whom the statute of limitations had run.275 Subsequently, an
act of a territorial legislature that required a prospective voter not
only to swear that he was not a bigamist or polygamist but also
that “I am not a member of any order, organization or association
which teaches, advises, counsels or encourages its members, devo-
tees or any other person to commit the crime of bigamy or po-
lygamy . . . or which practices bigamy, polygamy or plural or celes-
tial marriage as a doctrinal rite of such organization; that I do not
and will not, publicly or privately, or in any manner whatever teach,
advise, counsel or encourage any person to commit the crime of bigamy
or polygamy . . . ,” was upheld in an opinion that condemned plu-
ral marriage and its advocacy as equal evils.276 And, finally, the Court
sustained the revocation of the charter of the Mormon Church and
confiscation of all church property not actually used for religious
worship or for burial.277

    272  494 U.S. at 890.
    273  Employment Division v. Smith is discussed under “Free Exercise Exemption
From General Governmental Requirements,” infra, as is the Religious Freedom Res-
toration Act, which was enacted in response to the case.
     274 Reynolds v. United States, 98 U.S. 145 (1879); cf. Cleveland v. United States,

329 U.S. 14 (1946) (no religious-belief defense to Mann Act prosecution for transport-
ing a woman across state line for the “immoral purpose” of polygamy).
     275 Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 U.S. 15 (1885).
     276 Davis v. Beason, 133 U.S. 333 (1890). “Bigamy and polygamy are crimes by

the laws of all civilized and Christian countries. . . . To call their advocacy a tenet
of religion is to offend the common sense of mankind. If they are crimes, then to
teach, advise and counsel their practice is to aid in their commission, and such teach-
ing and counseling are themselves criminal and proper subjects of punishment, as
aiding and abetting crime are in all other cases.” Id. at 341–42.
     277 The Late Corporation of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints v.

United States, 136 U.S. 1 (1890). “[T]he property of the said corporation . . . [is to
be used to promote] the practice of polygamy—a crime against the laws, and abhor-
