the alleged disproportionate benefits to parents of parochial school
children was the assertion that, “whatever unequal effect may be
attributed to the statutory classification can fairly be regarded as a
rough return for the benefits . . . provided to the State and all tax-
payers by parents sending their children to parochial schools.” 131
     A second factor important in Mueller, which had been present
but not controlling in Nyquist, was that the financial aid was pro-
vided to the parents of schoolchildren rather than to the school. In
the Court’s view, therefore, the aid was “attenuated” rather than
direct; because it was “available only as a result of decisions of in-
dividual parents,” there was no “imprimatur of state approval.” The
Court noted that, with the exception of Nyquist, “all . . . of our re-
cent cases invalidating state aid to parochial schools have involved
the direct transmission of assistance from the State to the schools
themselves.” 132 Thus, Mueller apparently stands for the proposi-
tion that state subsidies of tuition expenses at sectarian schools are
permissible if contained in a facially neutral scheme providing ben-
efits, at least nominally, to parents of public and private schoolchil-
dren alike.
    The Court confirmed this proposition three years later in Wit-
ters v. Washington Department of Social Services for the Blind.133
At issue was the constitutionality of a grant made by a state voca-
tional rehabilitation program to a blind person who wanted to use
the grant to attend a religious school and train for a religious min-
istry. Again, the Court emphasized that, in the vocational rehabili-
tation program “any aid provided is ‘made available without re-
gard to the sectarian-nonsectarian, or public-nonpublic nature of the
institution benefited’ ” and “ultimately flows to religious institu-
tions . . . only as a result of the genuinely independent and private
choices of aid recipients.” 134 The program, the Court stated, did not
have the purpose of providing support for nonpublic, sectarian in-
stitutions; created no financial incentive for students to undertake
religious education; and gave recipients “full opportunity to expend
vocational rehabiiltation aid on wholly secular education.” “In this
case,” the Court found, “the fact that the aid goes to individuals
means that the decision to support religious education is made by
were sectarian in nature; and Widmar v. Vincent, 454 U.S. 263, 275 (1981), holding
that a college’s open forum policy had no primary effect of advancing religion “[a]t
least in the absence of evidence that religious groups will dominate [the] forum.”
But cf. Bowen v. Kendrick, 487 U.S. 589 (1988), permitting religious institutions to
be recipients under a “facially neutral” direct grant program.
    131 463 U.S. at 402.
    132 463 U.S. at 399.
    133 474 U.S. 481 (1986).
    134 474 U.S. at 487.
