serve that, even if the Fourteenth Amendment embodied prohibi-
tions similar to the First Amendment, “still we should be far from
the conclusion that the plaintiff in error would have us reach. In
the first place, the main purpose of such constitutional provisions
is ‘to prevent all such previous restraints upon publications as had
been practiced by other governments,’ and they do not prevent the
subsequent punishment of such as may be deemed contrary to the
public welfare. The preliminary freedom extends as well to the false
as to the true; the subsequent punishment may extend as well to
the true as to the false. This was the law of criminal libel apart
from statute in most cases, if not in all.” 371 But as Justice Holmes
also observed, “[t]here is no constitutional right to have all general
propositions of law once adopted remain unchanged.” 372
     But, in Schenck v. United States,373 the first of the post-World
War I cases to reach the Court, Justice Holmes, in his opinion for
the Court upholding convictions for violating the Espionage Act by
attempting to cause insubordination in the military service by cir-
culation of leaflets, suggested First Amendment restraints on sub-
sequent punishment as well as on prior restraint. “It well may be
that the prohibition of laws abridging the freedom of speech is not
confined to previous restraints, although to prevent them may have
been the main purpose . . . . We admit that in many places and in
ordinary times the defendants in saying all that was said in the
circular would have been within their constitutional rights. But the
the First Amendment.” Id. at 276. Madison’s Virginia Resolutions of 1798 and his
Report in support of them brought together and expressed the theories being devel-
oped by the Jeffersonians and represent a solid doctrinal foundation for the point of
view that the First Amendment superseded the common law on speech and press,
that a free, popular government cannot be libeled, and that the First Amendment
absolutely protects speech and press. 6 WRITINGS OF JAMES MADISON, 341–406 (G. Hunt
ed., 1908).
     371 Patterson v. Colorado, 205 U.S. 454, 462 (1907) (emphasis in original, cita-

tion omitted). Justice Frankfurter had similar views in 1951: “The historic anteced-
ents of the First Amendment preclude the notion that its purpose was to give un-
qualified immunity to every expression that touched on matters within the range of
political interest. . . . ‘The law is perfectly well settled,’ this Court said over fifty
years ago, ‘that the first ten amendments to the Constitution, commonly known as
the Bill of Rights, were not intended to lay down any novel principles of govern-
ment, but simply to embody certain guaranties and immunities which we had inher-
ited from our English ancestors, and which had from time immemorial been subject
to certain well-recognized exceptions arising from the necessities of the case. In in-
corporating these principles into the fundamental law there was no intention of dis-
regarding the exceptions, which continued to be recognized as if they had been for-
mally expressed.’ Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U.S. 275, 281. That this represents the
authentic view of the Bill of Rights and the spirit in which it must be construed has
been recognized again and again in cases that have come here within the last fifty
years.” Dennis v. United States, 341 U.S. 494, 521–522, 524 (1951) (concurring opin-
ion).
     372 Patterson v. Colorado, 205 U.S. 454, 461 (1907).
     373 249 U.S. 47, 51–52 (1919) (citations omitted).
