of public interest, or, in Chief Justice Warren’s words, those per-
sons who are “intimately involved in the resolution of important pub-
lic questions or, by reason of their fame, shape events in areas of
concern to society at large.” 1213 Later, the Court curtailed the defi-
nition of “public figure” by playing down the matter of public inter-
est and emphasizing the voluntariness of the assumption of a role
in public affairs that will make of one a “public figure.” 1214
     Second, in a fragmented ruling, the Court applied the Times stan-
dard to private citizens who had simply been involved in events of
public interest, usually, though not invariably, not through their own
choosing.1215 But, in Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc.1216 the Court set off
on a new path of limiting recovery for defamation by private per-
sons. Henceforth, persons who are neither public officials nor pub-
lic figures may recover for the publication of defamatory falsehoods
so long as state defamation law establishes a standard higher than
strict liability, such as negligence; damages may not be presumed,
however, but must be proved, and punitive damages will be recov-
erable only upon the Times showing of “actual malice.”
     The Court’s opinion by Justice Powell established competing con-
stitutional considerations. On the one hand, imposition upon the press
of liability for every misstatement would deter not only false speech
but much truth as well; the possibility that the press might have
to prove everything it prints would lead to self-censorship and the
consequent deprivation of the public of access to information. On
the other hand, there is a legitimate state interest in compensating
     1213 Curtis Publishing Co. v. Butts, 388 U.S. 130, 164 (1967) (Chief Justice War-

ren concurring in the result). Curtis involved a college football coach, and Associ-
ated Press v. Walker, decided in the same opinion, involved a retired general active
in certain political causes. The suits arose from reporting that alleged, respectively,
the fixing of a football game and the leading of a violent crowd in opposition to en-
forcement of a desegregation decree. The Court was extremely divided, but the rule
that emerged was largely the one developed in the Chief Justice’s opinion. Essen-
tially, four Justices opposed application of the Times standard to “public figures,”
although they would have imposed a lesser but constitutionally based burden on
public figure plaintiffs. Id. at 133 (plurality opinion of Justices Harlan, Clark, Stew-
art, and Fortas). Three Justices applied Times, id. at 162 (Chief Justice Warren),
and 172 (Justices Brennan and White). Two Justices would have applied absolute
immunity. Id. at 170 (Justices Black and Douglas). See also Greenbelt Cooperative
Pub. Ass’n v. Bresler, 398 U.S. 6 (1970).
     1214 Public figures “[f]or the most part [are] those who . . . have assumed roles

of especial prominence in the affairs of society. Some occupy positions of such persua-
sive power and influence that they are deemed public figures for all purposes. More
commonly, those classed as public figures have thrust themselves to the forefront of
particular public controversies in order to influence the resolution of the issues in-
volved.” Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc., 418 U.S. 323, 345 (1974).
     1215 Rosenbloom v. Metromedia, 403 U.S. 29 (1971). Rosenbloom had been prefig-

ured by Time, Inc. v. Hill, 385 U.S. 374 (1967), a “false light” privacy case consid-
ered infra
     1216 418 U.S. 323 (1974).
