     The trial court in Richmond Newspapers had made no findings
of necessity for closure, and neither Chief Justice Burger nor Jus-
tice Brennan found the need to articulate a standard for determin-
ing when the government’s or the defendant’s interests could out-
weigh the public right of access. That standard was developed two
years later. Globe Newspaper Co. v. Superior Court 950 involved a
statute, unique to one state, that mandated the exclusion of the pub-
lic and the press from trials during the testimony of a sex-crime
victim under the age of 18. For the Court, Justice Brennan wrote
that the First Amendment guarantees press and public access to
criminal trials, both because of the tradition of openness 951 and be-
cause public scrutiny of a criminal trial serves the valuable func-
tions of enhancing the quality and safeguards of the integrity of
the factfinding process, of fostering the appearance of fairness, and
of permitting public participation in the judicial process. The right
is not absolute, but in order to close all or part of a trial govern-
ment must show that “the denial is necessitated by a compelling
governmental interest, and [that it] is narrowly tailored to serve
that interest.” 952 The Court was explicit that the right of access
was to criminal trials,953 so that the question of the openness of
civil trials remains.
    The Court next applied and extended the right of access in sev-
eral other areas, striking down state efforts to exclude the public
from voir dire proceedings, from a suppression hearing, and from a
preliminary hearing. The Court determined in Press-Enterprise I 954
that historically voir dire had been open to the public, and that “[t]he
presumption of openness may be overcome only by an overriding
interest based on findings that closure is essential to preserve higher
     950 457 U.S. 596 (1982). Joining Justice Brennan’s opinion of the Court were

Justices White, Marshall, Blackmun, and Powell. Justice O’Connor concurred in the
judgment. Chief Justice Burger, with Justice Rehnquist, dissented, arguing that the
tradition of openness that underlay Richmond Newspapers, was absent with respect
to sex crimes and youthful victims and that Richmond Newspapers was unjustifi-
ably extended. Id. at 612. Justice Stevens dissented on the ground of mootness. Id.
at 620.
     951 That there was no tradition of openness with respect to the testimony of mi-

nor victims of sex crimes was irrelevant, the Court argued. As a general matter, all
criminal trials have been open. The presumption of openness thus attaches to all
criminal trials and to close any particular kind or part of one because of a particu-
lar reason requires justification on the basis of the governmental interest asserted.
457 U.S. at 605 n.13.
     952 457 U.S. at 606–07. Protecting the well-being of minor victims was a compel-

ling interest, the Court held, and might justify exclusion in specific cases, but it did
not justify a mandatory closure rule. The other asserted interest—encouraging mi-
nors to come forward and report sex crimes—was not well served by the statute.
     953 The Court throughout the opinion identifies the right as access to criminal

trials, even italicizing the words at one point. 457 U.S. at 605.
     954 Press-Enterprise Co. v. Superior Court, 464 U.S. 501 (1984).
