charged from a job that he is satisfactorily performing upon the sole
ground of his political beliefs or affiliations,632 the Court subse-
quently held that “the question is whether the hiring authority can
demonstrate that party affiliation is an appropriate requirement for
the effective performance of the public office involved.” 633 The Court
thus abandoned the concept of policymaking, confidential positions,
noting that some such positions would nonetheless be protected,
whereas some people filling positions not reached by the descrip-
tion would not be.634 The Court’s opinion makes it difficult to evalu-
ate the ramifications of the decision, but it seems clear that a ma-
jority of the Justices adhere to a doctrine of broad associational political
freedom that will have substantial implications for governmental
employment. Refusing to confine Elrod and Branti to their facts,
the court in Rutan v. Republican Party of Illinois 635 held that re-
strictions on patronage apply not only to dismissal or its substan-
tial equivalent, but also to promotion, transfer, recall after layoffs,
and hiring of low-level public employees. In 1996, the Court ex-
tended Elrod and Branti to protect independent government con-
tractors.636
     The protected right of association enables a political party to
assert against some state regulation an overriding interest suffi-
cient to overcome the legitimate interests of the governing body. Thus,
a Wisconsin law that mandated an open primary election, with party
delegates bound to support at the national convention the wishes
of the voters expressed in that primary election, although legiti-
mate and valid in and of itself, had to yield to a national party
     632 Elrod v. Burns, 427 U.S. 347 (1976). The limited concurrence of Justices Stew-

art and Blackmun provided the qualification for an otherwise expansive plurality
opinion. Id. at 374.
     633 Branti v. Finkel, 445 U.S. 507, 518 (1980). On the same page, the Court re-

fers to a position in which “party membership was essential to the discharge of the
employee’s governmental responsibilities.” (Emphasis added.) A great gulf separates
“appropriate” from “essential,” so that much depends on whether the Court was us-
ing the two words interchangeably or whether the stronger word was meant to char-
acterize the position noted and not to particularize the standard.
     634 Justice Powell’s dissents in both cases contain lengthy treatments of and de-

fenses of the patronage system as a glue strengthening necessary political parties.
445 U.S. at 520.
     635 497 U.S. 62 (1990). Rutan was a 5–4 decision, with Justice Brennan writing

the Court’s opinion. The four dissenters indicated, in an opinion by Justice Scalia,
that they would not only rule differently in Rutan, but that they would also over-
rule Elrod and Branti.
     636 O’Hare Truck Serv., Inc. v. City of Northlake, 518 U.S. 712 (1996) (allegation

that city removed petitioner’s company from list of those offered towing business on
a rotating basis, in retaliation for petitioner’s refusal to contribute to mayor’s cam-
paign, and for his support of mayor’s opponent, states a cause of action under the
First Amendment); Board of County Comm’rs v. Umbehr, 518 U.S. 668 (1996) (ter-
mination or non-renewal of a public contract in retaliation for the contractor’s speech
on a matter of public concern can violate the First Amendment).
