    The Court reaffimed Tinker in Healy v. James,806 in which it
held that the withholding of recognition by a public college admin-
istration from a student organization violated the students’ right of
association, which is implicit in the First Amendment. Denial of rec-
ognition, the Court held, was impermissible if it had been based on
the local organization’s affiliation with the national SDS, or on dis-
agreement with the organization’s philosophy, or on a fear of disrup-
tion with no evidentiary support. Furthermore, the Court wrote, “the
precedents of this Court leave no room for the view that, because
of the acknowledged need for order, First Amendment protections
should apply with less force on college campuses than in the com-
munity at large. Quite to the contrary, ‘[t]he vigilant protection of
constitutional freedoms is nowhere more vital than in the commu-
nity of American schools.’ . . . The college classroom with its sur-
rounding environs is peculiarly the ‘market place of ideas,’ and we
break no new constitutional ground in reaffirming this Nation’s dedi-
cation to safeguarding academic freedom.” 807 A college administra-
tion may, however, impose a requirement “that a group seeking of-
fical recognition affirm in advance its willingness to adhere to
reasonable campus law.” 808
    Although a public college may not be required to open its facili-
ties generally for use by student groups, once it has done so it must
justify any discrimination and exclusions under applicable constitu-
tional norms, such as those developed under the public forum doc-
trine. Thus, it was constitutionally impermissible for a college to
close off its facilities, otherwise open, to students wishing to en-
gage in religious speech.809

    806  408 U.S. 169 (1972).
    807  408 U.S. at 180–81 (internal quotation marks omitted).
     808 Healy v. James, 408 U.S. at 193. Because a First Amendment right was in

issue, the burden was on the college to justify its rejection of a request for recogni-
tion rather than upon the requesters to justify affirmatively their right to be recog-
nized. Id. at 184. Justice Rehnquist concurred in the result, because in his view a
school administration could impose upon students reasonable regulations that would
be impermissible if imposed by the government upon all citizens; consequently, he
did not think that cases the Court cited that had arisen in the latter situation were
controlling. Id. at 201. See also Grayned v. City of Rockford, 408 U.S. 104 (1972), in
which the Court upheld an anti-noise ordinance that forbade persons on grounds
adjacent to a school to willfully make noise or to create any other diversion during
school hours that “disturbs or tends to disturb” normal school activities.
     809 Widmar v. Vincent, 454 U.S. 263 (1981). To permit access by religious groups

does not violate the Establishment Clause, and, even if the Missouri Constitution
“has gone further than the Federal Constitution in proscribing indirect state sup-
port for religion, . . . the state interest asserted here—in achieving greater separa-
tion of church and State than is already ensured under the Establishment Clause of
the Federal Constitution—is limited by the Free Exercise Clause and in this case
by the Free Speech Clause as well.” Id. at 275–276.
