in the elementary and secondary school setting.170 The state “in ef-
fect required participation in a religious exercise,” since the option
of not attending “one of life’s most significant occasions” was no real
choice. “At a minimum,” the Court concluded, the Establishment
Clause “guarantees that government may not coerce anyone to sup-
port or participate in religion or its exercise.”
     In Santa Fe Independent School District v. Doe 171 the Court held
a school district’s policy permitting high school students to vote on
whether to have an “invocation and/or prayer” delivered prior to home
football games by a student elected for that purpose to violate the
Establishment Clause. It found the policy to violate each of the tests
it has formulated for Establishment Clause cases. The preference
given for an “invocation” in the text of the school district’s policy,
the long history of pre-game prayer led by a student “chaplain” in
the school district, and the widespread perception that “the policy
is about prayer,” the Court said, made clear that its purpose was
not secular but was to preserve a popular state-sponsored religious
practice in violation of the first prong of the Lemon test. Moreover,
it said, the policy violated the coercion test by forcing unwilling stu-
dents into participating in a religious exercise. Some students—the
cheerleaders, the band, football players—had to attend, it noted, and
others were compelled to do so by peer pressure. “The constitu-
tional command will not permit the District ‘to exact religious con-
formity from a student as the price’ of joining her classmates at a
varsity football game,” the Court held.172 Finally, it said, the speech
sanctioned by the policy was not private speech but government-
sponsored speech that would be perceived as a government endorse-
ment of religion. The long history of pre-game prayer, the bias to-
ward religion in the policy itself, the fact that the message would
be “delivered to a large audience assembled as part of a regularly
scheduled, school-sponsored function conducted on school prop-
erty” 173 and over the school’s public address system, the Court as-
serted, all meant that the speech was not genuine private speech

     170 The Court distinguished Marsh v. Chambers, 463 U.S. 783, 792 (1983), hold-

ing that the opening of a state legislative session with a prayer by a state-paid chap-
lain does not offend the Establishment Clause. The Marsh Court had distinguished
Abington on the basis that state legislators, as adults, are “presumably not readily
susceptible to ‘religious indoctrination’ or ‘peer pressure,’ ” and the Lee v. Weisman
Court reiterated this distinction. 505 U.S. at 596–97. An opportunity to flesh out
this distinction was lost when the Court dismissed for lack of standing an Establish-
ment Clause challenge to public school recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance with
the words “under God.” Elk Grove Unified School District v. Newdow, 542 U.S. 1
(2004).
     171 530 U.S. 290 (2000).
     172 530 U.S. at 312.
     173 530 U.S. at 307.
