    Of considerable importance to the contributions analysis, the Court
voided a section restricting the aggregate expenditure anyone could
make to advocate the election or defeat of a “clearly identified can-
didate” to $1,000 a year. Though the Court treated the restricted
spending as purely an expenditure, the activity seems to partake
equally of the nature of a contribution spent on behalf of a candi-
date (although not given to him or her directly). However, “[a]dvo-
cacy of the election or defeat of candidates for federal office is no
less entitled to protection under the First Amendment than the dis-
cussion of political policy generally or advocacy of the passage or
defeat of legislation.” 844 The Court found that none of the justifica-
tions offered in support of a restriction on such expression was ad-
equate; independent expenditures did not appear to pose the dan-
gers of corruption that contributions did, and it was an impermissible
purpose to attempt to equalize the ability of some individuals and
groups to express themselves by restricting the speech of other in-
dividuals and groups.845
     Similarly, limitations upon the amount of funds a candidate could
spend out of his own resources or those of his immediate family
were voided. A candidate, no less than any other person, has a First
Amendment right to advocate.846 The limitations upon total expen-
ditures by candidates seeking nomination or election to federal of-
fice could not be justified: the evil associated with dependence on
large contributions was met by limitations on contributions, the pur-
pose of equalizing candidate financial resources was impermissible,
    844  424 U.S. at 48.
    845  424 U.S. at 39–51. Justice White dissented. Id. at 257. In an oblique return
to the right-privilege distinction, the Court agreed that Congress could condition re-
ceipt of public financing funds upon acceptance of expenditure limitations. Id. at 108–
09. In Common Cause v. Schmitt, 512 F. Supp. 489 (D.D.C. 1980), aff’d by an equally
divided Court, 455 U.S. 129 (1982), a provision was invalidated that limited indepen-
dent political committees to expenditures of no more than $1,000 to further the elec-
tion of any presidential candidate who received public funding. An equally divided
affirmance is of limited precedential value. When the validity of this provision, 26
U.S.C. § 9012(f), was again before the Court in 1985, the Court invalidated it. FEC
v. National Conservative Political Action Comm., 470 U.S. 480 (1985). In an opinion
by Justice Rehnquist, the Court determined that the governmental interest in pre-
venting corruption or the appearance of corruption was insufficient justification for
restricting the First Amendment rights of committees interested in making indepen-
dent expenditures on behalf of a candidate, since “the absence of prearrangement
and coordination undermines the value of the expenditure to the candidate, and thereby
alleviates the danger that expenditures will be given as a quid pro quo for improper
commitments from the candidate.” Id. at 498. See also Colorado Republican Cam-
paign Comm. v. FEC, 518 U.S. 604 (1996) (the First Amendment bars application of
the Party Expenditure Provision of the Federal Election Campaign Act, 2 U.S.C.
§ 441a(d)(3), to expenditures that the political party makes independently, without
coordination with the candidate).
     846 424 U.S. at 51–54. Justices Marshall and White disagreed with this part of

the decision. Id. at 286.
