the statute, “if they appeared in a criminal statute or regulatory
scheme, . . . could raise substantial vagueness concerns. . . . But
when the government is acting as patron rather than as sovereign,
the consequences of imprecision are not constitutionally severe.” 994
     In contrast, in Agency for International Development v. Alliance
for Open Society Int’l,995 the Court found that the federal govern-
ment could not explicitly require a federal grantee to adopt a pub-
lic policy position as a condition of receiving federal funds. In Alli-
ance for Open Society Int’l, organizations receiving federal dollars
to combat HIV/AIDS internationally were required to 1) ensure that
such funds were not being used “to promote or advocate the legal-
ization or practice of prostitution or sex trafficking,” and 2) have a
policy “explicitly opposing prostitution.” 996 While the first condition
legitimately ensured that the government was not funding speech
which conflicted with the purposes of the grant, the second require-
ment improperly affected the recipient’s protected conduct outside
of the federal program. Further, the organization could not, as in
previous cases, avoid the requirement by establishing an affiliate
to engage in opposing advocacy because of the “evident hypocrisy”
that would entail.997
     Sometimes it is the nature of the speech at issue that pre-
cludes restrictions imposed by a government grant. In Legal Ser-
vices Corp. v. Valazquez,998 the Court struck down a provision of
the Legal Services Corporation Act that prohibited recipients of Le-
gal Services Corporation (LSC) funds (i.e., legal-aid organizations
that provide lawyers to the poor in civil matters) from representing
a client who seeks “to amend or otherwise challenge existing [wel-
fare] law.” This meant that, even with non-federal funds, a recipi-
ent of federal funds could not argue that a state welfare statute
violated a federal statute or that a state or federal welfare law vio-
lated the Constitution. If a case was underway when such a chal-
lenge became apparent, the attorney had to withdraw. The Court
distinguished this situation from that in Rust v. Sullivan on the
ground “that the counseling activities of the doctors under Title X
amounted to governmental speech,” whereas “an LSC-funded attor-
ney speaks on behalf of the client in a claim against the govern-
‘inconceivable.’ ” Id. at 585. Justice Scalia, in a concurring opinion joined by Justice
Thomas, claimed that this interpretation of the statute “gutt[ed] it.” Id. at 590. He
believed that the statute “establishes content- and viewpoint-based criteria upon which
grant applications are to be evaluated. And that is perfectly constitutional.” Id. at
581.
     994 524 U.S. at 588–89.
     995 570 U.S. ___, No. 12–10, slip op. (2013).
     996 22 U.S.C. §7631(e), (f).
     997 570 U.S. ___, No. 12–10, slip op. at 13.
     998 531 U.S. 533 (2001).
