can be subjected to reasonable time, place, or manner regulation
serving a “substantial” rather than “compelling” governmental in-
terest.315 Sherbert’s threshold test, inquiring “whether government
has placed a substantial burden on the observation of a central re-
ligious belief or practice,” 316 eliminates other issues. As long as a
particular religion does not proscribe the payment of taxes (as was
the case with the Amish in Lee), the Court has denied that there is
any constitutionally significant burden resulting from “imposition
of a generally applicable tax [that] merely decreases the amount of
money [adherents] have to spend on [their] religious activities.” 317
The one caveat the Court left—that a generally applicable tax might
be so onerous as to “effectively choke off an adherent’s religious prac-
tices” 318—may be a moot point in light of the Court’s general rul-
ing in Employment Division v. Smith, discussed below.
    The Court also drew a distinction between governmental regu-
lation of individual conduct, on the one hand, and restraint of gov-
ernmental conduct as a result of individuals’ religious beliefs, on
the other. Sherbert’s compelling interest test has been held inappli-
cable in cases viewed as involving attempts by individuals to alter
governmental actions rather than attempts by government to re-
strict religious practices. Emphasizing the absence of coercion on
religious adherents, the Court in Lyng v. Northwest Indian Cem-
etery Protective Ass’n 319 held that the Forest Service, even absent a
compelling justification, could construct a road through a portion of
a national forest held sacred and used by Indians in religious obser-
vances. The Court distinguished between governmental actions hav-
ing the indirect effect of frustrating religious practices and those
actually prohibiting religious belief or conduct: “ ‘the Free Exercise
Clause is written in terms of what the government cannot do to
the individual, not in terms of what the individual can exact from

     315 Heffron v. ISKCON, 452 U.S. 640 (1981). Requiring Krishnas to solicit at

fixed booth sites on county fair grounds is a valid time, place, and manner regula-
tion, although, as the Court acknowledged, id. at 652, peripatetic solicitation was
an element of Krishna religious rites.
     316 As restated in Hernandez v. Commissioner, 490 U.S. 680, 699 (1989).
     317 Jimmy Swaggart Ministries v. California Bd. of Equalization, 493 U.S. 378,

391 (1990). See also Tony and Susan Alamo Found. v. Secretary of Labor, 471 U.S.
290 (1985) (the Court failing to perceive how application of minimum wage and over-
time requirements would burden free exercise rights of employees of a religious foun-
dation, there being no assertion that the amount of compensation was a matter of
religious import); and Hernandez v. Commissioner, 490 U.S. 680 (1989) (questioning
but not deciding whether any burden was imposed by administrative disallowal of a
deduction for payments deemed to be for commercial rather than religious or chari-
table purposes).
     318 Jimmy Swaggart Ministries, 493 U.S. at 392.
     319 485 U.S. 439 (1988).
