land schoolchildren, only one of which is to obtain a program schol-
arship and then choose a religious school.” 141
     In contrast to its rulings concerning direct aid to sectarian el-
ementary and secondary schools, the Court, although closely di-
vided at times, has from the start approved quite extensive public
assistance to institutions of higher learning. On the same day that
it first struck down an assistance program for elementary and sec-
ondary private schools, the Court sustained construction grants to
church-related colleges and universities.142 The specific grants in ques-
tion were for the construction of two library buildings, a science build-
ing, a music, drama, and arts building, and a language laboratory.
The law prohibited the financing of any facility for, or the use of
any federally financed building for, religious purposes, although the
restriction on use ran for only twenty years.143 The Court found that
the purpose and effect of the grants were secular and that, unlike
elementary and secondary schools, religious colleges were not so de-
voted to inculcating religion.144 The supervision required to ensure
conformance with the non-religious-use requirement was found not
to constitute “excessive entanglement,” inasmuch as a building is
nonideological in character, and the construction grants were one-
time rather than continuing.
     Also sustained was a South Carolina program under which a
state authority would issue revenue bonds for construction projects
on campuses of private colleges and universities. The Court did not
decide whether this special form of assistance could be otherwise
sustained, because it concluded that religion was neither advanced
nor inhibited; nor was there any impermissible public entangle-
ment. “Aid normally may be thought to have a primary effect of
advancing religion when it flows to an institution in which religion
is so pervasive that a substantial portion of its functions are sub-
sumed in the religious mission or when it funds a specifically reli-
gious activity in an otherwise substantially secular setting.” 145 The
colleges involved, though affiliated with religious institutions, were
    141  536 U.S. at 655–56.
    142  Tilton v. Richardson, 403 U.S. 672 (1971). This was a 5–4 decision.
     143 Because such buildings would still have substantial value after twenty years,

the Court found that a religious use then would be an unconstitutional aid to reli-
gion, and it struck down the period of limitation. 403 U.S. at 682–84.
     144 It was no doubt true, Chief Justice Burger conceded, that construction grants

to religious-related colleges did in some measure benefit religion, because the grants
freed money that the colleges would be required to spend on the facilities for which
the grants were made. Bus transportation, textbooks, and tax exemptions similarly
benefited religion and had been upheld. “The crucial question is not whether some
benefit accrues to a religious institution as a consequence of the legislative pro-
gram, but whether its principal or primary effect advances religion.” 403 U.S. at
679.
     145 Hunt v. McNair, 413 U.S. 734, 743 (1973).
