as one of the great bulwarks of liberty, shall be inviolable.” 358 The
special committee rewrote the language to some extent, adding other
provisions from Madison’s draft, to make it read: “The freedom of
speech and of the press, and the right of the people peaceably to
assemble and consult for their common good, and to apply to the
government for redress of grievances, shall not be infringed.” 359 In
this form it went to the Senate, which rewrote it to read: “That
Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech, or of
the press, or the right of the people peaceably to assemble and con-
sult for their common good, and to petition the government for a
redress of grievances.” 360 Subsequently, the religion clauses and these
clauses were combined by the Senate.361 The final language was agreed
upon in conference.
    Debate in the House is unenlightening with regard to the mean-
ing the Members ascribed to the speech and press clause, and there
is no record of debate in the Senate.362 In the course of debate, Madi-
son warned against the dangers that would arise “from discussing
and proposing abstract propositions, of which the judgment may not
be convinced. I venture to say, that if we confine ourselves to an
enumeration of simple, acknowledged principles, the ratification will
meet with but little difficulty.” 363 That the “simple, acknowledged
principles” embodied in the First Amendment have occasioned con-
troversy without end both in the courts and out should alert one to
the difficulties latent in such spare language.
    Insofar as there is likely to have been a consensus, it was no
doubt the common law view as expressed by Blackstone. “The lib-
erty of the press is indeed essential to the nature of a free state;
but this consists in laying no previous restraints upon publications,
and not in freedom from censure for criminal matter when pub-
lished. Every freeman has an undoubted right to lay what senti-
ments he pleases before the public; to forbid this, is to destroy the
freedom of the press: but if he publishes what is improper, mischie-
vous, or illegal, he must take the consequences of his own temerity.
     358 1 ANNALS OF CONGRESS 434 (1789). Madison had also proposed language limit-

ing the power of the states in a number of respects, including a guarantee of free-
dom of the press. Id. at 435. Although passed by the House, the amendment was
defeated by the Senate. See “Amendments to the Constitution, Bill of Rights and
the States,” supra.
     359 Id. at 731 (August 15, 1789).
     360 THE BILL OF RIGHTS: A DOCUMENTARY HISTORY 1148–49 (B. Schwartz ed. 1971).
     361 Id. at 1153.
     362 The House debate insofar as it touched upon this amendment was con-

cerned almost exclusively with a motion to strike the right to assemble and an amend-
ment to add a right of the people to instruct their Representatives. 1 ANNALS OF CON-
GRESS 731–749 (August 15, 1789). There are no records of debates in the states on
ratification.
     363 Id. at 738.
