rehabilitation of the prisoners.963 In applying these general stan-
dards, the Court at first arrived at somewhat divergent points in
assessing prison restrictions on mail and on face-to-face news inter-
views between reporters and prisoners. The Court’s more recent def-
erential approach to regulation of prisoners’ mail has lessened the
differences.
    First, in Procunier v. Martinez,964 the Court invalidated mail
censorship regulations that permitted authorities to hold back or
to censor mail to and from prisoners whenever they thought that
the letters “unduly complain,” express “inflammatory . . . views,”
or were “defamatory” or “otherwise inappropriate.” 965 The Court based
this ruling not on the rights of the prisoner, but instead on the out-
sider’s right to communicate with the prisoner either by sending or
by receiving mail. Under this framework, the Court held, regula-
tion of mail must further an important interest unrelated to the
suppression of expression; regulation must be shown to further the
substantial interest of security, order, and rehabilitation; and regu-
lation must not be used simply to censor opinions or other expres-
sions. Further, a restriction must be no greater than is necessary
to the protection of the particular government interest involved.
    In Turner v. Safley,966 however, the Court made clear that a stan-
dard that is more deferential to the government is applicable when
the free speech rights only of inmates are at stake. In upholding a
Missouri restriction on correspondence between inmates at differ-
ent institutions, while striking down a prohibition on inmate mar-
riages absent a compelling reason such as pregnancy or birth of a
child, the Court announced the appropriate standard: “[W]hen a regu-
lation impinges on inmates’ constitutional rights, the regulation is
valid if it is reasonably related to legitimate penological inter-
ests.” 967 Four factors “are relevant in determining the reasonable-
    963  Procunier v. Martinez, 416 U.S. 396, 412 (1974).
    964  416 U.S. 396 (1974). But see Jones v. North Carolina Prisoners’ Union, 433
U.S. 119 (1977), in which the Court sustained prison regulations barring solicitation
of prisoners by other prisoners to join a union, banning union meetings, and deny-
ing bulk mailings concerning the union from outside sources. The reasonable fears
of correctional officers that organizational activities of the sort advocated by the union
could impair discipline and lead to possible disorders justified the regulations.
     965 416 U.S. at 396.
     966 482 U.S. 78 (1987).
     967 482 U.S. at 89. In Overton v. Bazzetta, 539 U.S. 126 (2003), the Court ap-

plied Turner to uphold various restrictions on visitation by children and by former
inmates, and on all visitation except attorneys and members of the clergy for in-
mates with two or more substance-abuse violations; an inmate subject to the latter
restriction could apply for reinstatement of visitation privileges after two years. “If
the withdrawal of all visitation privileges were permanent or for a much longer pe-
riod, or if it were applied in an arbitrary manner to a particular inmate, the case
would present different considerations.” Id. at 137.
