that prison officials are required by the Constitution to sacrifice le-
gitimate penological objectives to that end.” 327
     Finally, in Employment Division v. Smith 328 the Court indi-
cated that the compelling interest test may apply only in the field
of unemployment compensation, and in any event does not apply to
require exemptions from generally applicable criminal laws. Crimi-
nal laws are “generally applicable” when they apply across the board
regardless of the religious motivation of the prohibited conduct, and
are “not specifically directed at . . . religious practices.” 329 The un-
employment compensation statute at issue in Sherbert was pecu-
liarly suited to application of a balancing test because denial of ben-
efits required a finding that an applicant had refused work “without
good cause.” Sherbert and other unemployment compensation cases
thus “stand for the proposition that where the State has in place a
system of individual exemptions, it may not refuse to extend that
system to cases of ‘religious hardship’ without compelling rea-
son.” 330 Wisconsin v. Yoder and other decisions holding “that the
First Amendment bars application of a neutral, generally appli-
cable law to religiously motivated action” were distinguished as in-
volving “not the Free Exercise Clause alone, but the Free Exercise
Clause in conjunction with other constitutional protections” such as
free speech or “parental rights.” 331 Except in the relatively uncom-
mon circumstance when a statute calls for individualized consider-
ation, the Free Exercise Clause affords no basis for exemption from
a “neutral, generally applicable law.” As the Court concluded in Smith,
accommodation for religious practices incompatible with general re-
quirements must ordinarily be found in “the political process.” 332
     Smith has potentially widespread ramifications. The Court has
apparently returned to a belief-conduct dichotomy under which re-
ligiously motivated conduct is not entitled to special protection. Laws
may not single out religiously motivated conduct for adverse treat-
ment,333 but formally neutral laws of general applicability may regu-
late religious conduct (along with other conduct) regardless of the
    327 482 U.S. at 351–52 (also suggesting that the ability of the inmates to en-

gage in other activities required by their faith, e.g., individual prayer and obser-
vance of Ramadan, rendered the restriction reasonable).
    328 494 U.S. 872 (1990) (holding that state may apply criminal penalties to use

of peyote in a religious ceremony, and may deny unemployment benefits to persons
dismissed from their jobs because of religiously inspired use of peyote).
    329 494 U.S. at 878.
    330 494 U.S. at 884.
    331 494 U.S. at 881.
    332 494 U.S. at 890.
    333 This much was made clear by Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye v. City of Hia-

leah, 508 U.S. 520 (1993), which struck down a city ordinance that prohibited ritual
animal sacrifice but that allowed other forms of animal slaughter.
