ciation. No case involving prosecution under this law was reviewed
by the Supreme Court until, in Dennis v. United States,672 it consid-
ered the convictions of eleven Communist Party leaders on charges
of conspiracy to violate the advocacy and organizing sections of the
statute. Chief Justice Vinson’s plurality opinion applied a revised
clear and present danger test 673 and concluded that the evil sought
to be prevented was serious enough to justify suppression of speech.
“If, then, this interest may be protected, the literal problem which
is presented is what has been meant by the use of the phrase ‘clear
and present danger’ of the utterances bringing about the evil within
the power of Congress to punish. Obviously, the words cannot mean
that before the government may act, it must wait until the putsch
is about to be executed, the plans have been laid and the signal is
awaited. If Government is aware that a group aiming at its over-
throw is attempting to indoctrinate its members and to commit them
to a course whereby they will strike when the leaders feel the cir-
cumstances permit, action by the government is required.” 674 “The
mere fact that from the period 1945 to 1948 petitioners’ activities
did not result in an attempt to overthrow the Government by force
and violence is of course no answer to the fact that there was a
group that was ready to make the attempt. The formation by peti-
tioners of such a highly organized conspiracy, with rigidly disci-
plined members subject to call when the leaders, these petitioners,
felt that the time had come for action, coupled with the inflam-
mable nature of world conditions, similar uprisings in other coun-
tries, and the touch-and-go nature of our relations with countries
with whom petitioners were in the very least ideologically attuned,
convince us that their convictions were justified on this score.” 675
    Justice Frankfurter in concurrence developed a balancing test,
which, however, he deferred to the congressional judgment in apply-
ing, concluding that “there is ample justification for a legislative
judgment that the conspiracy now before us is a substantial threat
to national order and security.” 676 Justice Jackson’s concurrence was
based on his reading of the case as involving “a conviction of con-
spiracy, after a trial for conspiracy, on an indictment charging con-
spiracy, brought under a statute outlawing conspiracy.” Here the gov-
ernment was dealing with “permanently organized, well-financed,
semi-secret, and highly disciplined organizations” plotting to over-
throw the Government; under the First Amendment “it is not for-

   672 341   U.S.   494 (1951).
   673 341   U.S.   at 510.
   674 341   U.S.   at 509.
   675 341   U.S.   at 510–11.
   676 341   U.S.   at 517, 542.
