statements in the letter, and it could not proceed on the assump-
tion that the false statements were per se harmful, inasmuch as
the statements primarily reflected a difference of opinion between
the teacher and the board about the allocation of funds. Moreover,
the allocation of funds is a matter of important public concern about
which teachers have informed and definite opinions that the com-
munity should be aware of. “In these circumstances we conclude
that the interest of the school administration in limiting teachers’
opportunities to contribute to public debate is not significantly greater
than its interest in limiting a similar contribution by any member
of the general public.” 773
    Combining a balancing test of governmental interest and em-
ployee rights with a purportedly limiting statutory construction, the
Court, in Arnett v. Kennedy,774 sustained the constitutionality of a
federal law that authorized the removal or suspension without pay
of an employee “for such cause as will promote the efficiency of the
service” when the “cause” cited concerned speech by the employee.
He had charged that his superiors had made an offer of a bribe to
a private person. The quoted statutory phrase, the Court held, “is
without doubt intended to authorize dismissal for speech as well as
other conduct.” But, recurring to its Letter Carriers analysis,775 it
noted that the authority conferred was not impermissibly vague, in-
asmuch as it is not possible to encompass within a statutory enact-
ment all the myriad situations that arise in the course of employ-
ment, and inasmuch as the language used was informed by developed
principles of agency adjudication coupled with a procedure for ob-
taining legal counsel from the agency on the interpretation of the
law.776 Nor was the language overbroad, continued the Court, be-
cause it “proscribes only that public speech which improperly dam-
ages and impairs the reputation and efficiency of the employing agency,
and it thus imposes no greater controls on the behavior of federal
employees than are necessary for the protection of the government
      773 391 U.S. at 573. Pickering was extended to private communications of an

employee’s views to the employer in Givhan v. Western Line Consol. Sch. Dist., 439
U.S. 410 (1979), although the Court recognized that different considerations might
arise in different contexts. That is, with respect to public speech, content may be
determinative in weighing impairment of the government’s interests, whereas, with
private speech, as “[w]hen a government employee personally confronts his immedi-
ate superior, . . . the manner, time, and place in which it is delivered” may also be
relevant. Id. at 415 n.4. As discussed below, however, in Garcetti v. Ceballos, 547
U.S. 410 (2006), the Court held that there is no First Amendment protection at all
for government employees when they make statements pursuant to their official du-
ties.
      774 416 U.S. 134 (1974). The quoted language is from 5 U.S.C. § 7501(a).
      775 Civil Service Comm’n v. National Ass’n of Letter Carriers, 413 U.S. 548, 578–79

(1973).
      776 Arnett v. Kennedy, 416 U.S. 134, 158–64 (1974).
