closure of a party’s contributors’ names will subject them to threats,
harassment, or reprisals from either Government officials or pri-
vate parties.” 858 This standard was applied both to disclosure of con-
tributors’ names and to disclosure of recipients of campaign expen-
ditures in Brown v. Socialist Workers ’74 Campaign Committee,859
in which the Court held that the minor party had established the
requisite showing of likely reprisals through proof of past govern-
mental and private hostility and harassment. Disclosure of recipi-
ents of campaign expenditures, the Court reasoned, could not only
dissuade supporters and workers who might receive reimburse-
ment for expenses, but could also dissuade various entities from per-
forming routine commercial services for the party and thereby “cripple
a minor party’s ability to operate effectively.” 860
    The Court has apparently extended the reasoning of these cases
to include not just disclosure related to political contributions, but
also to disclosure related to legally “qualifying” a measure for the
ballot. In Doe v. Reed,861 the Court found that signing a petition to
initiate a referendum was a protected form of political expres-
sion,862 and that a state requirement to disclose the names and ad-
dresses on those petitions to the public would be subjected to “ex-
acting scrutiny.” 863 The Court upheld the disclosure requirement on
its face, finding that it furthered the state’s interest in detecting
fraud and mistake in the petitioning process, while also providing
for transparency and accountability. The case was remanded, how-
ever, to ascertain whether in this particular instance (a referen-
dum to overturn a law conferring rights to gay couples) there was
a “reasonable probability” that the compelled disclosures would sub-
    858  424 U.S. at 74.
    859  459 U.S. 87 (1982).
     860 459 U.S. at 97–98.
     861 561 U.S. ___, No. 09–559. slip op. (2010).
     862 Note, however, that the Court subsequently declined to extend the reasoning

of this case to find that a legislator’s vote was a form of expression protected by the
First Amendment. Nevada Comm’n on Ethics v. Carrigan, 564 U.S. ___, No. 10–568,
slip op. (2011) (upholding law prohibiting legislator with a conflict of interest from
voting on a proposal or advocating its passage or failure).
     863 Reed, No. 09–559, slip op. at 7. Five Justices joined the majority opinion writ-

ten by Chief Justice Roberts—Justices Kennedy, Ginsburg, Breyer, Alito and Sotomayor.
One might question, however, what level of scrutiny Justice Breyer would support,
since he also joined a concurrence by Justice Stevens, which suggested that the dis-
closure of the name and addresses on the petitions is not “a regulation of pure speech,”
and consequently should be subjected to a lesser standard of review. Slip op. at 1
(Stevens, J., concurring in part and in judgment). Justice Breyer, in his own concur-
rence, suggests that “in practice [the standard articulated in both the majority and
Justice Steven’s concurrence] has meant asking whether the statute burdens any
one such interest in a manner out of proportion to the statute’s salutary effects upon
the others.” Slip op. at 1 (Breyer, J., concurring). Justice Scalia, on the other hand,
questioned whether “signing a petition that has the effect of suspending a law fits
within ‘freedom of speech’ at all.” Slip op. at 1 (Scalia, J., concurring in judgement).
