in prohibiting discrimination against women were important to the
Court’s analysis. The Court found that “the local chapters of the
Jaycees are large and basically unselective groups,” age and sex be-
ing the only established membership criteria in organizations oth-
erwise entirely open to public participation. The Jaycees, therefore,
“lack the distinctive characteristics [e.g., small size, identifiable pur-
pose, selectivity in membership, perhaps seclusion from the public
eye] that might afford constitutional protection to the decision of
its members to exclude women.” 605 Similarly, the Court deter-
mined in Rotary International that Rotary Clubs, designed as com-
munity service organizations representing a cross section of busi-
ness and professional occupations, also do not represent “the kind
of intimate or private relation that warrants constitutional protec-
tion.” 606 And, in New York City, the fact “that the antidiscrimina-
tion provisions of the Human Rights Law certainly could be consti-
tutionally applied at least to some of the large clubs, under the Court’s
decisions in Rotary and Roberts,” and the fact that the clubs were
“ ‘commercial’ in nature,” helped to defeat the facial challenge.607
     Some amount of First Amendment protection is still due such
organizations; the Jaycees had taken public positions on a number
of issues, and, the Court in Roberts noted, “regularly engage[d] in
a variety of civic, charitable, lobbying, fundraising, and other activi-
ties worthy of constitutional protection under the First Amend-
ment. There is, however, no basis in the record for concluding that
admission of women as full voting members will impede the organi-
zation’s ability to engage in these protected activities or to dissemi-
nate its preferred views.” 608 Moreover, the state had a “compelling
interest to prevent . . . acts of invidious discrimination in the dis-
tribution of publicly available goods, services, and other advan-
tages. . . .” 609
    Because of the near-public nature of the Jaycees and Rotary
Clubs—the Court in Roberts likening the situation to a large busi-
ness attempting to discriminate in hiring or in selection of customers—
the cases may be limited in application, and should not be read as
governing membership discrimination by private social clubs.610 In
New York City, the Court noted that “opportunities for individual
    605 468 U.S. at 621.
    606 481 U.S. at 546.
    607 487 U.S. at 11–12.
    608 468 U.S. at 626–27 (citations omitted).
    609 468 U.S. at 628.
    610 The Court in Rotary rejected an assertion that Roberts had recognized that

Kiwanis Clubs are constitutionally distinguishable, and suggested that a case-by-
case approach is necessary to determine whether “the ‘zone of privacy’ extends to a
particular club or entity.” 481 U.S. at 547 n.6.
