     The rationale of Barnette became the basis for the Court’s deci-
sion in Wooley v. Maynard,557 which voided a requirement by the
state of New Hampshire that motorists display passenger vehicle
license plates bearing the motto “Live Free or Die.” 558 Acting on
the complaint of a Jehovah’s Witness, the Court held that the plain-
tiff could not be compelled by the state to display a message mak-
ing an ideological statement on his private property. In a subse-
quent case, however, the Court found that compelling property owners
to facilitate the speech of others by providing access to their prop-
erty did not violate the First Amendment.559 Nor was there a con-
stitutional violation where compulsory fees were used to subsidize
the speech of others.560
    Other governmental efforts to compel speech have also been held
by the Supreme Court to violate the First Amendment; these in-
clude a North Carolina statute that required professional fundrais-
ers for charities to disclose to potential donors the gross percentage




    557  430 U.S. 705 (1977).
    558  The state had prosecuted vehicle owners who covered the motto on their ve-
hicle’s license plate.
     559 As to the question of whether one can be required to allow others to speak

on his property, compare the Court’s opinion in PruneYard Shopping Center v. Rob-
ins, 447 U.S. 74, 85–88 (1980) (upholding a state requirement that privately owned
shopping centers permit others to engage in speech or petitioning on their property)
with Justice Powell’s concurring opinion in the same case, id. at 96 (would limit the
holding to situations where a property owner did not feel compelled to disassociate
themselves from the permitted speech).
     560 The First Amendment does not preclude a public university from charging

its students an activity fee that is used to support student organizations that en-
gage in extracurricular speech, provided that the money is allocated to those groups
by use of viewpoint-neutral criteria. Board of Regents of the Univ. of Wisconsin Sys-
tem v. Southworth, 529 U.S. 217 (2000) (upholding fee except to the extent a stu-
dent referendum substituted majority determinations for viewpoint neutrality in al-
locating funds). Nor does the First Amendment preclude the government from
“compel[ling] financial contributions that are used to fund advertising,” provided that
such contributions do not finance “political or ideological” views. Glickman v. Wile-
man Bros. & Elliott, Inc., 521 U.S. 457, 471, 472 (1997) (upholding Secretary of Ag-
riculture’s marketing orders that assessed fruit producers to cover the expenses of
generic advertising of California fruit). But, for compelled financial contributions to
be constitutional, the advertising they fund must be, as in Glickman, “ancillary to a
more comprehensive program restricting marketing autonomy” and not “the princi-
pal object of the regulatory scheme.” United States v. United Foods, Inc., 533 U.S.
405, 411, 412 (2001) (striking down Secretary of Agriculture’s mandatory assess-
ments, used for advertising, upon handlers of fresh mushrooms). The First Amend-
ment is, however, not violated when the government compels financial contributions
to fund government speech, even if the contributions are raised through a targeted
assessment rather than through general taxes. Johanns v. Livestock Marketing Ass’n,
544 U.S. 550 (2005).
