may not justify discrimination against religious viewpoints as nec-
essary to avoid creating an “establishment” of religion.
     Tax Exemptions of Religious Property.—Every state and the
District of Columbia provide for tax exemptions for religious insti-
tutions, and the history of such exemptions goes back to the time
of our establishment as a polity. The only expression by a Supreme
Court Justice prior to 1970 was by Justice Brennan, who deemed
tax exemptions constitutional because the benefit conferred was in-
cidental to the religious character of the institutions concerned.189
Then, in 1970, a nearly unanimous Court sustained a state exemp-
tion from real or personal property taxation of “property used exclu-
sively for religious, educational or charitable purposes” owned by a
corporation or association which was conducted exclusively for one
or more of these purposes and did not operate for profit.190 The first
prong of a two-prong argument saw the Court adopting Justice Bren-
nan’s rationale. Using the secular purpose and effect test, Chief Jus-
tice Burger noted that the purpose of the exemption was not to single
out churches for special favor; instead, the exemption applied to a
broad category of associations having many common features and
all dedicated to social betterment. Thus, churches as well as muse-
ums, hospitals, libraries, charitable organizations, professional as-
sociations, and the like, all non-profit, and all having a beneficial
and stabilizing influence in community life, were to be encouraged
by being treated specially in the tax laws. The primary effect of the
exemptions was not to aid religion; the primary effect was secular
and any assistance to religion was merely incidental.191
    For the second prong, the Court created a new test, the entangle-
ment test,192 by which to judge the program. There was some en-
tanglement whether there were exemptions or not, Chief Justice
Burger continued, but with exemptions there was minimal involve-
ment. But termination of exemptions would deeply involve govern-
ment in the internal affairs of religious bodies, because evaluation
of religious properties for tax purposes would be required and there
would be tax liens and foreclosures and litigation concerning such
matters.193

     189 “If religious institutions benefit, it is in spite of rather than because of their

religious character. For religious institutions simply share benefits which govern-
ment makes generally available to educational, charitable, and eleemosynary groups.”
Abington School Dist. v. Schempp, 374 U.S. 203, 301 (1963) (concurring opinion).
     190 Walz v. Tax Comm’n, 397 U.S. 664 (1970). Justice Douglas dissented.
     191 397 U.S. at 672–74.
     192 See discussion under “Court Tests Applied to Legislation Affecting Religion,”

supra.
     193 397 U.S. at 674–76.
