v. Wisconsin Right to Life (WRTL II),902 the Court considered what
standard should be used for such a challenge. Chief Justice Rob-
erts, in the controlling opinion,903 rejected the suggestion that an
issue ad broadcast during the specified periods before elections should
be considered the “functional equivalent” of express advocacy if the
“intent and effect” of the ad was to influence the voter’s decision in
an election.904 Rather, Chief Justice Roberts’ opinion held that an
issue ad is the functional equivalent of express advocacy only if the
ad is “susceptible of no reasonable interpretation other than as an
appeal to vote for or against a specific candidate.” 905
    Then came the case of Citizens United v. FEC,906 which signifi-
cantly altered the Supreme Court’s jurisprudence on corporations
and election law. In Citizens United, a non-profit corporation re-
leased a film critical of then-Senator Hillary Clinton, a candidate
in the Democratic Party’s 2008 Presidential primary elections, and
sought to make it available to cable television subscribers within
30 days of that primary. The case began as another as-applied chal-
lenge to BCRA, but the Court asked for reargument, and, in a 5–4
decision, not only struck down the limitations on electioneering com-
munication on its face (overruling McConnell) but also rejected the
use of the antidistortion rationale (overruling Austin).
    In Citizens United, the Court argued that there was a tension
between the right of corporations to engage in political speech, as
articulated in Bellotti and its progeny, and the limitations on such
speech allowed in Austin to avoid the disproportionate economic power
of corporations. Reasoning that the Court had rejected similar at-
tempts to level the playing field among differing voices with dispa-
rate economic resources,907 the Court held that the premise that
    902  127 S. Ct. 2652 (2007).
    903  Only Justice Alito joined Parts III and IV of Chief Justice Roberts’ opinion,
which addressed the issue of as-applied challenges to BCRA. Justices Scalia (joined
by Kennedy and Thomas) concurred in the judgment, but would have overturned
McConnell and struck down BCRA’s limits on issue advocacy on its face.
     904 The suggestion was made that an “intent and effect” standard had been en-

dorsed by the Court in McConnell, which stated that “[t]he justifications for the regu-
lation of express advocacy apply equally to ads aired during those periods if the ads
are intended to influence the voters’ decisions and have that effect.” 540 U.S. at 206.
While acknowledging that an evaluation of the “intent and effect” had been relevant
to the rejection of a facial challenge, Chief Justice Roberts’ opinion in WRTL II de-
nied that such a standard had been endorsed for as-applied challenges. 127 S. Ct.
at 2664–66.
     905 127 S. Ct. at 2667.
     906 558 U.S. ___, No. 08–205, slip op. (2010).
     907 See Buckley, 424 U.S. at 49 (First Amendment’s protections do not depend

on the speaker’s “financial ability to engage in public discussion.”); Davis v. Federal
Election Commission, 554 U.S. ___, No. 07–320, slip op. (2008) (invalidating the cap
on contributions to one candidate if the opponent made certain expenditures from
personal funds.
