     A related question is whether the government violates the First
Amendment rights of a candidate running a privately funded cam-
paign when it provides public “equalization” funds to opposition can-
didates. In Arizona Free Enterprise Club’s Freedom Club PAC v. Ben-
nett,851 the Court considered an Arizona voluntary public financing
system which granted an initial allotment to the campaigns of can-
didates for state office who agreed to certain requirements and limi-
tations.852 In addition, matching funds were made available to the
campaign if the expenditures of a privately financed opposing can-
didate, combined with the expenditures of any independent groups
supporting that opposing candidacy, exceeded the campaign’s ini-
tial allotment. Citing Davis, the Court found the scheme unconsti-
tutional because it forced the privately financed candidate to “shoul-
der a special and potentially significant burden” in choosing to exercise
his First Amendment right to spend funds on behalf of his candi-
dacy.853 Although the dissent argued that the provision of benefits
to one speaker had not previously been considered by the Court as
a significant burden to another,854 the majority distinguished those
cases as not having involved the provision of subsidies to directly
counter the triggering speech.855
     It was mentioned above that the Court in Buckley upheld the
disclosure requirements of the Federal Election Campaign Act. The
Court found that, although compelled disclosure “cannot be justi-
fied by a mere showing of some legitimate governmental interest,”
the governmental interests in the disclosure that the statute in Buckley
mandated were “sufficiently important to outweigh the possibility
of infringement” of the First Amendment.856 Disclosure, the Court
found, “provides the electorate with information ‘as to where politi-
cal campaign money comes from and how it is spent by the candi-
date’ ”; it deters “actual corruption and the appearance of corrup-
tion”; and it is “an essential means of gathering the data necessary
to detect violations of the contribution limitations” that the statute
imposed.857
     The Court indicated, however that, under some circumstances,
the First Amendment might require exemption for minor parties that
were able to show “a reasonable probability that the compelled dis-
    851   564 U.S. ___, No. 10–238, slip op. (2011).
    852  These included limiting the expenditure of personal funds to $500, participat-
ing in at least one public debate, adhering to an over all expenditure cap, and re-
turning all unspent public moneys to the State.
     853 Bennett, 564 U.S. ___, No. 10–238, slip op. at 11 quoting Davis, 554 U.S. at

739.
     854 Slip op. 10–11 (Kagan, J., dissenting).
     855 Slip op. at 17.
     856 424 U.S. at 64, 66. See also Amendment I, “Political Association,” supra.
     857 424 U.S. at 66, 67, 68.
