     In Wallace v. Jaffree,166 the Court held invalid an Alabama stat-
ute authorizing a 1-minute period of silence in all public schools
“for meditation or prayer.” Because the only evidence in the record
indicated that the words “or prayer” had been added to the exist-
ing statute by amendment for the sole purpose of returning volun-
tary prayer to the public schools, the Court found that the first prong
of the Lemon test had been violated, i.e., that the statute was in-
valid as being entirely motivated by a purpose of advancing reli-
gion. The Court characterized the legislative intent to return prayer
to the public schools as “quite different from merely protecting ev-
ery student’s right to engage in voluntary prayer during an appro-
priate moment of silence during the schoolday,” 167 and both Jus-
tices Powell and O’Connor in concurring opinions suggested that other
state statutes authorizing moments of silence might pass constitu-
tional muster.168
     The school prayer decisions served as precedent for the Court’s
holding in Lee v. Weisman 169 that a school-sponsored invocation at
a high school commencement violated the Establishment Clause. The
Court rebuffed a request to reexamine the Lemon test, finding “[t]he
government involvement with religious activity in this case [to be]
pervasive, to the point of creating a state-sponsored and state-
directed religious exercise in a public school.” State officials not only
determined that an invocation and benediction should be given, but
also selected the religious participant and provided him with guide-
lines for the content of nonsectarian prayers. The Court, in an opin-
ion by Justice Kennedy, viewed this state participation as coercive
gans of government for essentially religious purposes; or (c) use essentially religious
means to serve governmental ends, where secular means would suffice.” Id. at 230,
295. Justice Stewart again dissented alone, feeling that the claims presented were
essentially free exercise contentions which were not supported by proof of coercion
or of punitive official action for nonparticipation.
     While numerous efforts were made over the years to overturn these cases, through
constitutional amendment and through limitations on the Court’s jurisdiction, the
Supreme Court itself has had no occasion to review the area again. But see Stone v.
Graham, 449 U.S. 39 (1980) (summarily reversing state court and invalidating stat-
ute requiring the posting of the Ten Commandments, purchased with private contri-
butions, on the wall of each public classroom, on the grounds the Ten Command-
ments are “undeniably a sacred text” and the “pre-eminent purpose” of the posting
requirement was “plainly religious in nature”).
     166 472 U.S. 38 (1985).
     167 472 U.S. at 59.
     168 Justice O’Connor’s concurring opinion is notable for its effort to synthesize

and refine the Court’s Establishment and Free Exercise tests (see also the Justice’s
concurring opinion in Lynch v. Donnelly), and Justice Rehnquist’s dissent for its ef-
fort to redirect Establishment Clause analysis by abandoning the tripartite test, dis-
carding any requirement that government be neutral between religion and “irreli-
gion,” and confining the scope to a prohibition on establishing a national church or
otherwise favoring one religious group over another.
     169 505 U.S. 577 (1992).
