anyone to support or participate in any religion or its exercise; and
it may not, in the guise of avoiding hostility or callous indifference,
give direct benefits to religion in such a degree that it in fact ‘estab-
lishes a state religion or religious faith, or tends to do so.’ ” 232
    In Capitol Square Review Bd. v. Pinette,233 the Court distin-
guished privately sponsored from governmentally sponsored reli-
gious displays on public property. There the Court ruled that Ohio
violated free speech rights by refusing to allow the Ku Klux Klan
to display an unattended cross in a publicly owned plaza outside
the Ohio Statehouse. Because the plaza was a public forum in which
the state had allowed a broad range of speakers and a variety of
unattended displays, the state could regulate the expressive con-
tent of such speeches and displays only if the restriction was neces-
sary, and narrowly drawn, to serve a compelling state interest. The
Court recognized that compliance with the Establishment Clause
can be a sufficiently compelling reason to justify content-based re-
strictions on speech, but saw no need to apply this principle when
permission to display a religious symbol is granted through the same
procedures, and on the same terms, required of other private groups
seeking to convey non-religious messages.
    Displays of the Ten Commandments on government property oc-
casioned two decisions in 2005. As in Allegheny County, a closely
divided Court determined that one display violated the Establish-
ment Clause and one did not. And again, context and imputed pur-
pose made the difference. The Court struck down display of the Ten
Commandments in courthouses in two Kentucky counties,234 but held
that a display on the grounds of the Texas State Capitol was per-
missible.235 The displays in the Kentucky courthouses originally “stood
alone, not part of an arguably secular display.” 236 Moreover, the his-

    232 492 U.S. at 659.
    233 515 U.S. 753 (1995). The Court was divided 7–2 on the merits of Pinette, a
vote that obscured continuing disagreement over analytical approach. The portions
of Justice Scalia’s opinion that formed the opinion of the Court were joined by Chief
Justice Rehnquist and by Justices O’Connor, Kennedy, Souter, Thomas, and Breyer.
A separate part of Justice Scalia’s opinion, joined only by the Chief Justice and by
Justices Kennedy and Thomas, disputed the assertions of Justices O’Connor, Souter,
and Breyer that the “endorsement” test should be applied. Dissenting Justice Ste-
vens thought that allowing the display on the Capitol grounds did carry “a clear
image of endorsement” (id. at 811), and Justice Ginsburg’s brief opinion seemingly
agreed with that conclusion.
    234 McCreary County v. ACLU of Kentucky, 545 U.S. 844 (2005).
    235 Van Orden v. Perry, 545 U.S. 677 (2005).
    236 545 U.S. at 868. The Court in its previous Ten Commandments case, Stone

v. Graham, 449 U.S. 39, 41 (1980) (invalidating display in public school classrooms)
had concluded that the Ten Commandments are “undeniably a sacred text,” and the
2005 Court accepted that characterization. McCreary, 545 U.S. at 859.
