     Finally, in the first case since Bradfield v. Roberts 150 to chal-
lenge the constitutionality of public aid to non-educational reli-
gious institutions, the Court in Bowen v. Kendrick,151 by a 5–4 vote,
upheld the Adolescent Family Life Act (AFLA) 152 against facial chal-
lenge. The Act permits direct grants to religious organizations for
the provision of health care and for counseling of adolescents on
matters of pregnancy prevention and abortion alternatives, and re-
quires grantees to involve other community groups, including reli-
gious organizations, in the delivery of services. All the Justices agreed
that AFLA had valid secular purposes; their disagreement related
to application of the effects and entanglement tests. The Court re-
lied on analogy to the higher education cases rather than to the
cases involving aid to elementary and secondary schools.153 The case
presented conflicting factual considerations. On the one hand, the
class of beneficiaries was broad, with religious groups not predomi-
nant among the wide range of eligible community organizations. On
the other hand, there were analogies to the parochial school aid cases:
secular and religious teachings might easily be mixed, and the age
of the targeted group (adolescents) suggested susceptibility. The Court
resolved these conflicts by holding that AFLA is facially valid, there
being insufficient indication that a significant proportion of the AFLA
funds would be disbursed to “pervasively sectarian” institutions, but
by remanding to the district court to determine whether particular
grants to pervasively sectarian institutions were invalid. The Court
emphasized in both parts of its opinion that the fact that “views
espoused [during counseling] on matters of premarital sex, abor-
tion, and the like happen to coincide with the religious views of the
AFLA grantee would not be sufficient to show [an Establishment
Clause violation].” 154
     At the time it was rendered, Bowen differed from the Court’s
decisions concerning direct aid to sectarian elementary and second-
ary schools primarily in that it refused to presume that religiously
affiliated social welfare entities are pervasively sectarian. That dif-
ference had the effect of giving greater constitutional latitude to pub-
lic aid to such entities than was afforded direct aid to religious el-
ementary and secondary schools. As noted above, the Court in its
clude a student religious publication from a program subsidizing the printing costs
of all other student publications. The Court said the fund was essentially a reli-
giously neutral subsidy promoting private student speech without regard to content.
     150 175 U.S. 291 (1899).
     151 487 U.S. 589 (1988).
     152 Pub. L. 97–35, 95 Stat. 578 (1981), codified at 42 U.S.C. §§ 300z et seq.
     153 The Court also noted that the 1899 case of Bradfield v. Roberts had estab-

lished that religious organizations may receive direct aid for support of secular social-
welfare cases.
     154 487 U.S. at 621.
