speak of laws “abridging” the freedom of speech and press, and the
modern cases have been largely fought over subsequent punish-
ment. “[T]he mere exemption from previous restraints cannot be all
that is secured by the constitutional provisions, inasmuch as of words
to be uttered orally there can be no previous censorship, and the
liberty of the press might be rendered a mockery and a delusion,
and the phrase itself a byword, if, while every man was at liberty
to publish what he pleased, the public authorities might neverthe-
less punish him for harmless publications . . . .”
     “[The purpose of the speech and press clause] has evidently been
to protect parties in the free publication of matters of public con-
cern, to secure their right to a free discussion of public events and
public measures, and to enable every citizen at any time to bring
the government and any person in authority to the bar of public
opinion by any just criticism upon their conduct in the exercise of
the authority which the people have conferred upon them. . . . The
evils to be prevented were not the censorship of the press merely,
but any action of the government by means of which it might pre-
vent such free and general discussion of public matters as seems
absolutely essential to prepare the people for an intelligent exer-
cise of their rights as citizens.” 439 A rule of law permitting criminal
or civil liability to be imposed upon those who speak or write on
public issues would lead to self-censorship, which would not be re-
lieved by permitting a defense of truth. “Under such a rule, would-be
critics of official conduct may be deterred from voicing their criti-
cism, even though it is believed to be true and even though it is in
fact true, because of doubt whether it can be proved in court or
fear of the expense of having to do so . . . . The rule thus dampens
the vigor and limits the variety of public debate.” 440
    “Persecution for the expression of opinions seems to me per-
fectly logical. If you have no doubt of your premises or your power
and want a certain result with all your heart you naturally express
your wishes in law and sweep away all opposition. To allow opposi-
tion by speech seems to indicate that you think the speech impo-
tent, as when a man says that he has squared the circle, or that
you do not care whole-heartedly for the result, or that you doubt
either your power or your premises. But when men have realized
that time has upset many fighting faiths, they may come to believe
even more than they believe the very foundations of their own con-
     439 2 T. COOLEY, A TREATISE ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL LIMITATIONS WHICH REST UPON THE

LEGISLATIVE POWERS OF THE STATES OF THE AMERICAN UNION 885–86 (8th ed. 1927).
     440 New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U.S. 254, 279 (1964). See also Speiser

v. Randall, 357 U.S. 513, 526 (1958); Smith v. California, 361 U.S. 147, 153–54 (1959);
Time, Inc. v. Hill, 385 U.S. 374, 389 (1967).
