financed by voluntary contributions to a PAC unconstitutional as
applied to a corporation organized to promote political ideas, hav-
ing no stockholders, and not serving as a front for a “business cor-
poration” or union. The Court found that one of the rationales for
the special rules on corporate participation in elections—
elimination of “the potential for unfair deployment of [corporate] wealth
for political purposes”—had no applicability to a corporation “formed
to disseminate political ideas, not to amass capital.” 881 The other
principal rationale—protection of corporate shareholders and other
contributors from having their money used to support political can-
didates to whom they may be opposed—was also deemed inappli-
cable. The Court distinguished National Right to Work Committee
because “restrictions on contributions require less compelling justi-
fication than restrictions on independent spending,” and also ex-
plained that, “given a contributor’s awareness of the political activ-
ity of [MCFL], as well as the readily available remedy of refusing
further donations, the interest protecting contributors is simply in-
sufficient to support § 441b’s restriction on . . . independent spend-
ing.” 882 What the Court did not address directly was whether the
same analysis could have led to a different result in National Right
to Work Committee.883
    Clarification of Massachusetts Citizens for Life was provided by
Austin v. Michigan State Chamber of Commerce,884 in which the Court
upheld application to a nonprofit corporation of Michigan’s restric-
tions on independent expenditures by corporations. The Michigan
law, like federal law, prohibited such expenditures from corporate
treasury funds, but allowed them to be made from a corporation’s
PAC funds. This arrangement, the Court decided, serves the state’s
compelling interest in ensuring that expenditure of corporate wealth,
accumulated with the help of special advantages conferred by state
law, does not “distort” the election process.885 The law was suffi-
ciently “narrowly tailored” because it permits corporations to make
independent political expenditures through segregated funds that
“accurately reflect contributors’ support for the corporation’s politi-

    881 479 U.S. at 259.
    882 479 U.S. at 259–60, 262.
    883 The Court did not spell out whether there was any significant distinction

between the two organizations, NRWC and MCFL; Chief Justice Rehnquist’s dis-
sent suggested that there was not. See 479 U.S. at 266.
    884 494 U.S. 652 (1990).
    885 Austin v. Michigan State Chamber of Commerce, 494 U.S. 652 (1990) Austin

found the law helped prevent “the corrosive and distorting effects of immense aggre-
gations of wealth that are accumulated with the help of the corporate form and that
have little or no correlation to the public’s support for the corporation’s political ideas.”
494 U.S. at 660.
