dents is voluntary can serve to free it from the limitations of the
Establishment Clause, as it might from the Free Exercise Clause. . . .
The Establishment Clause . . . does not depend upon any showing
of direct governmental compulsion and is violated by the enact-
ment of laws which establish an official religion whether those laws
operate directly to coerce nonobserving individuals or not.” 161
    Following the prayer decision came two cases in which parents
and their school age children challenged the validity under the Es-
tablishment Clause of requirements that each school day begin with
readings of selections from the Bible. Scripture reading, like prayers,
the Court found, was a religious exercise. “Given that finding the
exercises and the law requiring them are in violation of the Estab-
lishment Clause.” 162 Rejected were contentions by the state that the
object of the programs was the promotion of secular purposes, such
as the expounding of moral values, the contradiction of the materi-
alistic trends of the times, the perpetuation of traditional institu-
tions, and the teaching of literature 163 and that to forbid the par-
ticular exercises was to choose a “religion of secularism” in their
place.164 Though the “place of religion in our society is an exalted
one,” the Establishment Clause, the Court continued, prescribed that
in “the relationship between man and religion,” the state must be
“firmly committed to a position of neutrality.” 165
     161 370 U.S. at 430. Justice Black for the Court rejected the idea that the prohi-

bition of religious services in public schools evidenced “a hostility toward religion or
toward prayer.” Id. at 434. Rather, such an application of the First Amendment pro-
tected religion from the coercive hand of government and government from control
by a religious sect. Dissenting alone, Justice Stewart could not “see how an ‘official
religion’ is established by letting those who want to say a prayer say it. On the con-
trary, I think that to deny the wish of these school children to join in reciting this
prayer is to deny them the opportunity of sharing in the spiritual heritage of our
Nation.” Id. at 444, 445.
     162 Abington School Dist. v. Schempp, 374 U.S. 203, 223 (1963). “[T]he States

are requiring the selection and reading at the opening of the school day of verses
from the Holy Bible and the recitation of the Lord’s Prayer by the students in uni-
son. These exercises are prescribed as part of the curricular activities of students
who are required by law to attend school. They are held in the school buildings un-
der the supervision and with the participation of teachers employed in those schools.
None of these factors, other than compulsory school attendance, was present in the
program upheld in Zorach v. Clausen.” Id.
     163 374 U.S. at 223–24. The Court thought the exercises were clearly religious.
     164 374 U.S. at 225. “We agree of course that the State may not establish a ‘re-

ligion of secularism’ in the sense of affirmatively opposing or showing hostility to
religion, thus ‘preferring those who believe in no religion over those who do be-
lieve.’ ” Zorach v. Clauson, 343 U.S. at 314. “We do not agree, however, that this
decision in any sense has that effect.”
     165 374 U.S. at 226. Justice Brennan contributed a lengthy concurrence in which

he attempted to rationalize the decisions of the Court on the religion clauses and to
delineate the principles applicable. He concluded that what the Establishment Clause
foreclosed “are those involvements of religious with secular institutions which (a)
serve the essentially religious activities of religious institutions; (b) employ the or-
