gious educational functions, i.e., that they are pervasively sectar-
ian. But their rationales for the program’s constitutionality then di-
verged. For Justice Thomas it was sufficient that the instructional
materials were secular in nature and were distributed according to
neutral criteria. It made no difference whether the schools used the
aid for purposes of religious indoctrination or not. But that was not
sufficient for Justice O’Connor. She adhered to the view that direct
public aid has to be limited to secular use by the recipient institu-
tions. She further asserted that a limitation to secular use could be
honored by the teachers in the sectarian schools and that the risk
that the aid would be used for religious purposes was not so great
as to require an intrusive and entangling government monitor-
ing.121
     Justice Souter, joined by Justices Stevens and Ginsburg, dis-
sented on the grounds that the Establishment Clause bars “aid sup-
porting a sectarian school’s religious exercise or the discharge of its
religious mission.” Adhering to the “substantive principle of no aid”
first articulated in Everson, he contended that direct aid to perva-
sively sectarian institutions inevitably results in the diversion of
the aid for purposes of religious indoctrination. He further argued
that the aid in this case had been so diverted.
    As the opinion upholding the program’s constitutionality on the
narrowest grounds, Justice O’Connor’s provides the most current
guidance on the standards governing the constitutionality of aid pro-
grams directly benefiting sectarian elementary and secondary schools.
    The Court has similarly loosened the constitutional restrictions
on public aid programs indirectly benefiting sectarian elementary
and secondary schools. Initially, the Court in 1973 struck down sub-
stantially similar programs in New York and Pennsylvania provid-
ing for tuition reimbursement to parents of religious school chil-
dren. New York’s program provided reimbursements out of general
tax revenues for tuition paid by low-income parents to send their
children to nonpublic elementary and secondary schools; the reim-
bursements were of fixed amounts but could not exceed 50 percent
of actual tuition paid. Pennsylvania provided fixed-sum reimburse-
ment for parents who sent their children to nonpublic elementary
and secondary schools, so long as the amount paid did not exceed
actual tuition, the funds to be derived from cigarette tax revenues.
    121 Justice O’Connor also cited several other factors as “sufficient” to ensure the

program’s constitutionality, without saying whether they were “constitutionally nec-
essary”—that the aid supplemented rather than supplanted the school’s educational
functions, that no funds ever reached the coffers of the sectarian schools, and that
there were various administrative regulations in place providing for some degree of
monitoring of the schools’ use of the aid.
