recent decisions eliminated the presumption that such religious schools
are pervasively sectarian and has extended the same constitutional
latitude to aid programs benefiting such schools as it gives to aid
programs benefiting religiously affiliated social welfare programs.
     Governmental Encouragement of Religion in Public Schools:
Released Time.—Introduction of religious education into the pub-
lic schools, one of Justice Rutledge’s “great drives,” 155 has also oc-
casioned a substantial amount of litigation in the Court. In its first
two encounters, the Court voided one program and upheld another,
in which the similarities were at least as significant as the differ-
ences. Both cases involved “released time” programs, the establish-
ing of a period during which pupils in public schools were to be
allowed, upon parental request, to receive religious instruction. In
the first, the religious classes were conducted during regular school
hours in the school building by outside teachers furnished by a re-
ligious council representing the various faiths, subject to the ap-
proval or supervision of the superintendent of schools. Attendance
reports were kept and reported to the school authorities in the same
way as for other classes, and pupils not attending the religious in-
struction classes were required to continue their regular studies.
“The operation of the State’s compulsory education system thus as-
sists and is integrated with the program of religious instruction car-
ried on by separate religious sects. Pupils compelled by law to go
to school for secular education are released in part from their legal
duty upon the condition that they attend the religious classes. This
is beyond all question a utilization of the tax-established and tax-
supported public school system to aid religious groups to spread their
faith. And it falls squarely under the ban of the First Amendment
. . . .” 156 The case was also noteworthy because of the Court’s ex-
press rejection of the contention “that historically the First Amend-
ment was intended to forbid only government preference of one re-
ligion over another, not an impartial governmental assistance of all
religions.” 157
    Four years later, the Court upheld a different released-time pro-
gram.158 In this one, schools released pupils during school hours,
on written request of their parents, so that they might leave the
school building and go to religious centers for religious instruction
or devotional exercises. The churches reported to the schools the
    155 Everson v. Board of Education, 330 U.S. 1, 63 (Justice Rutledge dissenting)

(quoted under “Establishment of Religion,” supra).
    156 Illinois ex rel. McCollum v. Board of Education, 333 U.S. 203, 209–10 (1948).
    157 333 U.S. at 211.
    158 Zorach v. Clauson, 343 U.S. 306 (1952). Justices Black, Frankfurter, and Jack-

son dissented. Id. at 315, 320, 323.
