states. Most importantly, the First Amendment had been drafted
in the First Congress with an awareness of the chaplaincy prac-
tice, and this practice was not prohibited or discontinued. The Court
did not address the lower court’s findings,220 amplified in Justice
Brennan’s dissent, that each aspect of the Lemon v. Kurtzman tri-
partite test had been violated. Instead of constituting an applica-
tion of the tests, therefore, Marsh can be read as representing an
exception to their application.221
     Religious Displays on Government Property.—A different form
of governmentally sanctioned religious observance—inclusion of re-
ligious symbols in governmentally sponsored holiday displays—was
twice before the Court, with varying results. In 1984, in Lynch v.
Donnelly,222 the Court found that the Establishment Clause was not
violated by inclusion of a Nativity scene (creche) in a city’s Christ-
mas display; in 1989, in Allegheny County v. Greater Pittsburgh
ACLU,223 inclusion of a creche in a holiday display was found to
constitute a violation. Also at issue in Allegheny County was inclu-
sion of a menorah in a holiday display; here the Court found no
violation. The setting of each display was crucial to the different
results in these cases, the determinant being whether the Court ma-
jority believed that the overall effect of the display was to empha-
size the religious nature of the symbols, or whether instead the em-
phasis was primarily secular. Perhaps equally important for future
cases, however, was the fact that the four dissenters in Allegheny
County would have upheld both the creche and menorah displays
under a more relaxed, deferential standard.
    Chief Justice Burger’s opinion for the Court in Lynch began by
expanding on the religious heritage theme exemplified by Marsh;
other evidence that “ ‘[w]e are a religious people whose institutions
presuppose a Supreme Being’ ” 224 was supplied by reference to the
national motto “In God We Trust,” the affirmation “one nation un-
der God” in the pledge of allegiance, and the recognition of both
Thanksgiving and Christmas as national holidays. Against that back-
    220 Chambers v. Marsh, 675 F.2d 228 (8th Cir. 1982).
    221 School prayer cases were distinguished on the basis that legislators, as adults,
are presumably less susceptible than are schoolchildren to religious indoctrination
and peer pressure, 463 U.S. at 792, but there was no discussion of the tests them-
selves.
    222 465 U.S. 668 (1984). Lynch was a 5–4 decision, with Justice Blackmun, who

voted with the majority in Marsh, joining the Marsh dissenters in this case. Again,
Chief Justice Burger wrote the opinion of the Court, joined by the other majority
Justices, and again Justice Brennan wrote a dissent, joined by the other dissenters.
A concurring opinion was added by Justice O’Connor, and a dissenting opinion was
added by Justice Blackmun.
    223 492 U.S. 573 (1989).
    224 465 U.S. at 675, quoting Zorach v. Clausen, 343 U.S. 306, 313 (1952).
