be identified in the future, that such categories as already exist have
long-established roots in First Amendment law.1127
    Originally the Court took a “two-tier” approach to content-
oriented regulation of expression. Under the “definitional balanc-
ing” of this approach, some forms of expression are protected by
the First Amendment and certain categories of expression are not
entitled to protection. This doctrine traces to Chaplinsky v. New Hamp-
shire,1128 in which the Court opined that “certain well-defined and
narrowly limited classes of speech . . . are no essential part of any
exposition of ideas, and are of such slight social value as a step to
truth” that government may prevent those utterances and punish
those uttering them without raising any constitutional problems. If
speech fell within the Chaplinsky categories, it was unprotected, re-
gardless of its effect; if it did not, it was covered by the First Amend-
ment and it was protected unless the restraint was justified by some
test relating to harm, such as clear and present danger or a balanc-
ing of presumptively protected expression against a compelling gov-
ernmental interest.
     For several decades, the decided cases reflected a fairly consis-
tent and sustained march by the Court to the elimination of, or a
severe narrowing of, the “two-tier” doctrine. The result was protec-
tion of much expression that before would have been held abso-
lutely unprotected (e.g., seditious speech and seditious libel, fight-
ing words, defamation, and obscenity). Later, the march was deflected
by a shift in position with respect to obscenity and by the creation
of a new category of non-obscene child pornography. But, in the course
of this movement, differences surfaced among the Justices on the
permissibility of regulation based on content and the interrelated
issue of a hierarchy of speech values, according to which some forms
of expression, while protected, may be more readily subject to offi-
cial regulation and perhaps suppression than other protected expres-
sion. These differences were compounded in cases in which First
Amendment values came into conflict with other values, either con-
stitutionally protected values such as the right to fair trials in crimi-
nal cases, or societally valued interests such as those in privacy and
reputation.
    Attempts to work out these differences are elaborated in the fol-
lowing pages, but the effort to formulate a doctrine of permissible
     1127 For instance, child pornography, which appears to be a relatively recently

identified category of unprotected speech, see New York v. Ferber, 458 U.S. 747 (1982),
is “intrinsically related” to the sexual abuse of children, and thus falls into the pre-
viously existing category of speech facilitating criminal activity. Stevens, 559 U.S.
___, No. 08–769, slip op. at 8.
     1128 315 U.S. 568, 571–72 (1942).
