    In Virginia v. Black, the Court held that its opinion in R.A.V.
did not make it unconstitutional for a state to prohibit burning a
cross with the intent of intimidating any person or group of per-
sons.1194 Such a prohibition does not discriminate on the basis of a
defendant’s beliefs: “as a factual matter it is not true that cross burn-
ers direct their intimidating conduct solely to racial or religious mi-
norities. . . . The First Amendment permits Virginia to outlaw cross
burnings done with the intent to intimidate because burning a cross
is a particularly virulent form of intimidation. Instead of prohibit-
ing all intimidating messages, Virginia may choose to regulate this
subset of intimidating messages. . . .” 1195
    Defamation.—One of the most seminal shifts in constitutional
jurisprudence occurred in 1964 with the Court’s decision in New York
Times Co. v. Sullivan.1196 The Times had published a paid advertise-
ment by a civil rights organization criticizing the response of a South-
ern community to demonstrations led by Dr. Martin Luther King,
and containing several factual errors. The plaintiff, a city commis-
sioner in charge of the police department, claimed that the adver-
tisement had libeled him even though he was not referred to by
name or title and even though several of the incidents described
had occurred prior to his assumption of office. Unanimously, the Court
reversed the lower court’s judgment for the plaintiff. To the conten-
tion that the First Amendment did not protect libelous publica-
tions, the Court replied that constitutional scrutiny could not be fore-
closed by the “label” attached to something. “Like . . . the various
other formulae for the repression of expression that have been chal-
lenged in this Court, libel can claim no talismanic immunity from
constitutional limitations. It must be measured by standards that
satisfy the First Amendment.” 1197 “The general proposition,” the Court
continued, “that freedom of expression upon public questions is se-
cured by the First Amendment has long been settled by our deci-
sions . . . . [W]e consider this case against the background of a pro-
found national commitment to the principle that debate on public

societal harm than do non-bias inspired crimes (e.g., they are more likely to provoke
retaliatory crimes). Id. at 487–88. See generally Laurence H. Tribe, The Mystery of
Motive, Private and Public: Some Notes Inspired by the Problems of Hate Crime and
Animal Sacrifice, 1993 SUP. CT. REV. 1.
     1194 538 U.S. 343 (2003). A plurality held, however, that a statute may not pre-

sume, from the fact that a defendant burned a cross, that he had an intent to intimi-
date. The state must prove that he did, as “a burning cross is not always intended
to intimidate,” but may constitute a constitutionally protected expression of opinion.
Id. at 365–66.
     1195 538 U.S. at 362–63.
     1196 376 U.S. 254 (1964).
     1197 376 U.S. at 269. Justices Black, Douglas, and Goldberg, concurring, would

have held libel laws per se unconstitutional. Id. at 293, 297.
