ceedings is insufficient to override the consequential, but uncer-
tain, burden on news gathering which is said to result from insisting
that reporters, like other citizens, respond to relevant questions put
to them in the course of a valid grand jury investigation or crimi-
nal trial.” 932 Not only was it uncertain to what degree confidential
informants would be deterred from providing information, said Jus-
tice White for the Court, but the conditional nature of the privilege
claimed might not mitigate the deterrent effect, leading to claims
for an absolute privilege. Confidentiality could be protected by the
secrecy of grand jury proceedings and by the experience of law en-
forcement officials in themselves dealing with informers. Difficul-
ties would arise as well in identifying who should have the privi-
lege and who should not. But the principal basis of the holding was
that the investigation and exposure of criminal conduct was a gov-
ernmental function of such importance that it overrode the interest
of reporters in avoiding the incidental burden on their newsgather-
ing activities occasioned by such governmental inquiries.933
    The Court observed that Congress, as well as state legislatures
and state courts, are free to adopt privileges for reporters.934 Al-
though efforts in Congress have failed, 49 states have done so—33
(plus the District of Columbia) by statute and 16 by court decision,


      932 408 U.S. at 690–91. The cases consolidated in Branzburg all involved grand

juries, so the reference to criminal trials should be considered dictum.
      933 Chief Justice Burger and Justices Blackmun, Powell, and Rehnquist joined

the Court’s opinion. Justice Powell, despite having joined the majority opinion, also
submitted a concurring opinion in which he suggested a privilege might be avail-
able if, in a particular case, “the newsman is called upon to give information bear-
ing only a remote and tenuous relationship to the subject of the investigation, or if
he has some other reason to believe that his testimony implicates confidential source
relationships without a legitimate need of law enforcement.” 408 U.S. at 710. Jus-
tice Stewart’s dissenting opinion in Branzburg referred to Justice Powell’s concur-
ring opinion as “enigmatic.” Id. at 725. Judge Tatel of the D.C. Circuit wrote, “Though
providing the majority’s essential fifth vote, he [Powell] wrote separately to outline
a ‘case-by-case’ approach that fits uncomfortably, to say the least, with the Branzburg
majority’s categorical rejection of the reporters’ claims.” In re: Grand Jury Sub-
poena, Judith Miller, 397 F.3d 964, 987 (D.C. Cir. 2005) (Tatel, J., concurring) (cita-
tion omitted), rehearing en banc denied, 405 F.3d 17 (D.C. Cir. 2005 (Tatel, J., con-
curring), cert. denied, 545 U.S. 1150 (2005), reissued with unredacted material, 438
F.3d 1141 (D.C. Cir. 2006).
      “[C]ourts in almost every circuit around the country interpreted Justice Pow-
ell’s concurrence, along with parts of the Court’s opinion, to create a balancing test
when faced with compulsory process for press testimony and documents outside the
grand jury context.” Association of the Bar of the City of New York, The Federal
Common Law of Journalists’ Privilege: A Position Paper (2005) at 4–5
[http://www.abcny.org/pdf/report/White%20paper%20on%20reporters%20privilege.pdf]
(citing examples).
      934 408 U.S. at 706.
