would immunize the NAACP without a finding that it “authorized—
either actually or apparently—or ratified unlawful conduct.” 1479
     Claiborne Hardware is, thus, a seminal decision in the Court’s
effort to formulate standards governing state power to regulate or
to restrict expressive conduct that comes close to or crosses over
the line to encompass some violent activities; it requires great speci-
ficity and the drawing of fine discriminations by government so as
to reach only that portion of the activity that does involve violence
or the threat of violence, and forecloses the kind of “public policy”
limit on demonstrations that was approved in Hughes v. Superior
Court.1480
    More recently, disputes arising from anti-abortion protests out-
side abortion clinics have occasioned another look at principles dis-
tinguishing lawful public demonstrations from proscribable con-
duct. In Madsen v. Women’s Health Center,1481 the Court refined
principles governing issuance of “content-neutral” injunctions that
restrict expressive activity.1482 The appropriate test, the Court stated,
is “whether the challenged provisions of the injunction burden no
     1479 458 U.S. at 931. In ordinary business cases, the rule of liability of an entity

for actions of its agents is broader. E.g., American Soc’y of Mech. Eng’rs v. Hydrolevel
Corp., 456 U.S. 556 (1982). The different rule in cases of organizations formed to
achieve political purposes rather than economic goals appears to require substantial
changes in the law of agency with respect to such entities. Note, 96 HARV. L. REV.
171, 174–76 (1982).
     1480 “Concerted action is a powerful weapon. History teaches that special dan-

gers are associated with conspiratorial activity. And yet one of the foundations of
our society is the right of individuals to combine with other persons in pursuit of a
common goal by lawful means.”
     “[P]etitioners’ ultimate objectives were unquestionably legitimate. The charge of
illegality . . . derives from the means employed by the participants to achieve those
goals. The use of speeches, marches, and threats of social ostracism cannot provide
the basis for a damages award. But violent conduct is beyond the pale of constitu-
tional protection.”
     “The taint of violence colored the conduct of some of the petitioners. They, of
course, may be held liable for the consequences of their violent deeds. The burden
of demonstrating that it colored the entire collective effort, however, is not satisfied
by evidence that violence occurred or even that violence contributed to the success
of the boycott. [The burden can be met only] by findings that adequately disclose
the evidentiary basis for concluding that specific parties agreed to use unlawful means,
that carefully identify the impact of such unlawful conduct, and that recognizes the
importance of avoiding the imposition of punishment for constitutionally protected
activity. . . . A court must be wary of a claim that the true color of a forest is better
revealed by reptiles hidden in the weeds than by the foliage of countless freestand-
ing trees.” 458 U.S. at 933–34.
     1481 512 U.S. 753 (1994).
     1482 The Court rejected the argument that the injunction was necessarily content-

based or viewpoint-based because it applied only to anti-abortion protesters. “An in-
junction by its very nature applies only to a particular group (or individuals) . . . .
It does so, however, because of the group’s past actions in the context of a specific
dispute between real parties.” There had been no similarly disruptive demonstra-
tions by pro-abortion factions at the abortion clinic. 512 U.S. at 762.
