the First Amendment generally prohibits the suppression of politi-
cal speech based on the speaker’s identity of necessity prevents dis-
tinctions based on wealth.908 In particular, the Court noted that me-
dia corporations, although statutorily exempted from these restrictions,
do not receive special constitutional protection under the First Amend-
ment,909 and thus would be constitutionally vulnerable under an
antidistortion rationale.
    The Court also held that the ability of a corporation to form a
PAC neither allowed that corporation to speak directly, nor did it
provide a sufficient alternative method of speech. The Court, found
that PACs are burdensome alternatives that are “expensive to ad-
minister and are subject to extensive regulation.” 910 The Court noted
that the difficulty in establishing a PAC might explain why fewer
than 2,000 of the millions of corporations in the country have PACs.
Further, the Court argued that even if a corporation did want to
establish a PAC to speak to an urgent issue, that such corporation
might not be able to establish one in time to address issues in a
current campaign.
     While the holding of Citizens United would appear to diminish
the need for corporations to create PACs in order to engage in po-
litical speech, it is not clear what level of regulation will now be
allowed over speech made directly by a corporation.911 The Court
did uphold the requirements under BCRA that electioneering com-
munications funded by anyone other than a candidate must in-
clude a disclaimer regarding who is responsible for the content of
the communication, and that the person making the expenditure
must disclose to the FEC the amount of the expenditure and the
names of certain contributors. The Court held that these require-
ments could be justified based on a governmental interest in “pro-
vid[ing] the electorate with information” about the sources of election-
     908 Citizens United, slip op. at 34. The Court concluded that “independent expen-

ditures, including those made by corporations, do not give rise to corruption or the
appearance of corruption.”, slip op. at 42. The State of Montana had had a long-
standing bar on independent political expenditures by corporations founded on a re-
cord that those expenditures in fact could lead to corruption or the appearance of
corruption. In a per curiam opinion, with four justices dissenting, the Court struck
down the Montana law as contrary to Citizens United. American Tradition Partner-
ship, Inc. v. Bullock, 567 U.S. ___, No. 11–1179. slip op. (2012).
     909 Slip. op. at 35–37.
     910 558 U.S. ___, slip op. at 21. For example, a PAC must appoint a treasurer,

keep detailed records of persons making donations, preserve receipts for three years,
must report changes to its organizational statement within 10 days, and must file
detailed monthly reports with the FEC. Id.
     911 For instance, while the Court in National Right to Work allowed restrictions

on corporate solicitation of other corporations for PAC funds, the Court might be
disinclined to allow restrictions on corporations soliciting other corporations for funds
to use for direct independent expenditures.
