anarchists who had printed leaflets seeking to encourage discon-
tent with the United States’ participation in World War I. The ma-
jority simply referred to Schenck and Frohwerk to rebut the First
Amendment argument, but the dissenters urged that the govern-
ment had made no showing of a clear and present danger. Another
affirmance by the Court of a conviction, the majority simply saying
that “[t]he tendency of the articles and their efficacy were enough
for the offense,” drew a similar dissent.451 Moreover, in Gitlow v.
New York,452 a conviction for distributing a manifesto in violation
of a law making it criminal to advocate, advise, or teach the duty,
necessity, or propriety of overthrowing organized government by force
or violence, the Court affirmed in the absence of any evidence re-
garding the effect of the distribution and in the absence of any con-
tention that it created any immediate threat to the security of the
state. In so doing, the Court discarded Holmes’ test. “It is clear that
the question in such cases [as this] is entirely different from that
involved in those cases where the statute merely prohibits certain
acts involving the danger of substantive evil, without any reference
to language itself, and it is sought to apply its provisions to lan-
guage used by the defendant for the purpose of bringing about the
prohibited results. . . . In such cases it has been held that the gen-
eral provisions of the statute may be constitutionally applied to the
specific utterance of the defendant if its natural tendency and prob-
able effect was to bring about the substantive evil which the legis-
lative body might prevent. . . . And the general statement in the
Schenck Case . . . was manifestly intended . . . to apply only in cases
of this class, and has no application to those like the present, where
the legislative body itself has previously determined the danger of
substantive evil arising from utterances of a specified charac-
ter.” 453 Thus, a state legislative determination “that utterances ad-
vocating the overthrow of organized government by force, violence
and unlawful means, are so inimical to the general welfare and in-
volve such danger of substantive evil that they may be penalized
in the exercise of its police power” was almost conclusive to the
Court.454 It is not clear what test, if any, the majority would have

     451 Schaefer v. United States, 251 U.S. 466, 479 (1920). See also Pierce v. United

States, 252 U.S. 239 (1920).
     452 268 U.S. 652 (1925).
     453 268 U.S. at 670–71.
     454 268 U.S. at 668. Justice Holmes dissented. “If what I think the correct test

is applied, it is manifest that there was no present danger of an attempt to over-
throw the government by force on the part of the admittedly small minority who
shared the defendant’s views. It is said that this manifesto was more than a theory,
that it was an incitement. Every idea is an incitement. It offers itself for belief and
if believed it is acted on unless some other belief outweighs it or some failure of
energy stifles the movement at its birth. The only difference between the expression
