of a state to abridge speech “even of utterances of a defined charac-
ter must find its justification in a reasonable apprehension of dan-
ger to organized government.”
    Finally, in Thornhill v. Alabama,461 a state anti-picketing law
was invalidated because “no clear and present danger of destruc-
tion of life or property, or invasion of the right of privacy, or breach
of the peace can be thought to be inherent in the activities of every
person who approaches the premises of an employer and publicizes
the facts of a labor dispute involving the latter.” During the same
term, the Court reversed the breach of the peace conviction of a
Jehovah’s Witness who had played an inflammatory phonograph re-
cord to persons on the street, the Court discerning no clear and pres-
ent danger of disorder.462
    The stormiest fact situation the Court faced in applying the clear
and present danger test occurred in Terminiello v. City of Chi-
cago,463 in which a five-to-four majority struck down a conviction
obtained after the judge instructed the jury that a breach of the
peace could be committed by speech that “stirs the public to anger,
invites dispute, brings about a condition of unrest, or creates a dis-
turbance.” “A function of free speech under our system of govern-
ment,” wrote Justice Douglas for the majority, “is to invite dispute.
It may indeed best serve its high purpose when it induces a condi-
tion of unrest, creates dissatisfaction with conditions as they are,
or even stirs people to anger. Speech is often provocative and chal-
lenging. It may strike at prejudices and preconceptions and have
profound unsettling effects as it presses for acceptance of an idea.
That is why freedom of speech, though not absolute, . . . is never-
theless protected against censorship or punishment, unless shown
likely to produce a clear and present danger of a serious substan-
tive evil that rises far above public inconvenience, annoyance, or
unrest.” 464 The dissenters focused on the disorders that had actu-
ally occurred as a result of Terminiello’s speech, Justice Jackson say-
ing: “Rioting is a substantive evil, which I take it no one will deny
that the State and the City have the right and the duty to prevent
and punish . . . . In this case the evidence proves beyond dispute
that danger of rioting and violence in response to the speech was
clear, present and immediate.” 465 The Jackson position was soon
    461 310 U.S. 88, 105 (1940). The Court admitted that the picketing did result in

economic injury to the employer, but found such injury “neither so serious nor so
imminent” as to justify restriction. The doctrine of clear and present danger was
not to play a future role in the labor picketing cases.
    462 Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U.S. 296, 308 (1940).
    463 337 U.S. 1 (1949).
    464 337 U.S. at 4–5.
    465 337 U.S. at 25–26.
