sumption of majority rule to award control to the majority of the
local congregation, provided that it permitted defeasance of the pre-
sumption upon a showing that the identity of the local church is to
be determined by some other means as expressed perhaps in the
general church charter.52 The dissent argued that to permit a court
narrowly to view only the church documents relating to property
ownership permitted it to ignore the fact that the dispute was over
ecclesiastical matters and that the general church had decided which
faction of the congregation was the local church.53
    Thus, it is unclear where the Court is on this issue. Jones v.
Wolf restated the rule that it is improper to review an ecclesiasti-
cal dispute and that deference is required in those cases, but, by
approving a neutral principles inquiry which in effect can filter out
the doctrinal issues underlying a church dispute, the Court seems
to have approved at least an indirect limitation of the authority of
hierarchical churches.54

Establishment of Religion
    “[F]or the men who wrote the Religion Clauses of the First Amend-
ment the ‘establishment’ of a religion connoted sponsorship, finan-
cial support, and active involvement of the sovereign in religious
activity.” 55 “[The] Court has long held that the First Amendment
reaches more than classic, 18th-century establishments.” 56 How-
ever, the Court’s reading of the clause has never resulted in the
barring of all assistance that aids, however incidentally, a religious
institution. Outside this area, the decisions generally have more rig-
orously prohibited what may be deemed governmental promotion
of religious doctrine.57

     52 443 U.S. at 606–10. Because it was unclear whether the state court had ap-

plied such a rule and applied it properly, the Court remanded.
     53 443 U.S. at 610.
     54 The Court indicated that the general church could always expressly provide

in its charter or in deeds to property the proper disposition of disputed property.
But here the general church had decided which faction was the “true congregation,”
and this would appear to constitute as definitive a ruling as the Court’s suggested
alternatives. 443 U.S. at 606.
     55 Walz v. Tax Comm’n, 397 U.S. 664, 668 (1970). “Two great drives are con-

stantly in motion to abridge, in the name of education, the complete division of reli-
gion and civil authority which our forefathers made. One is to introduce religious
education and observances into the public schools. The other, to obtain public funds
for the aid and support of various private religious schools . . . . In my opinion both
avenues were closed by the Constitution.” Everson v. Board of Education, 330 U.S.
1, 63 (1947) (Justice Rutledge dissenting).
     56 Board of Educ. of Kiryas Joel Village v. Grumet, 512 U.S. 687, 709 (1994)

(citing Torcaso v. Watkins, 367 U.S. 488, 492–95 (1961)).
     57 For a discussion of standing to sue in Establishment Clause cases, see Article

III, Taxpayer Suits, supra.
