lessened political constraint than do those measures affecting a broader
based constituency, and because “differential treatment, unless jus-
tified by some special characteristic of the press, suggests that the
goal of the regulation is not unrelated to suppression of expres-
sion.” 1075 The state’s interest in raising revenue is not sufficient jus-
tification for differential treatment of the press. Moreover, the Court
refused to adopt a rule permitting analysis of the “effective bur-
den” imposed by a differential tax; even if the current effective tax
burden could be measured and upheld, the threat of increasing the
burden on the press might have “censorial effects,” and “courts as
institutions are poorly equipped to evaluate with precision the rela-
tive burdens of various methods of taxation.” 1076
     Also difficult to justify is taxation that targets specific sub-
groups within a segment of the press for differential treatment. An
Arkansas sales tax exemption for newspapers and for “religious, pro-
fessional, trade, and sports journals” published within the state was
struck down as an invalid content-based regulation of the press.1077
Entirely as a result of content, some magazines were treated less
favorably than others. The general interest in raising revenue was
again rejected as a “compelling” justification for such treatment, and
the measure was viewed as not narrowly tailored to achieve other
asserted state interests in encouraging “fledgling” publishers and
in fostering communications.
     The Court seemed to change course somewhat in 1991, uphold-
ing a state tax that discriminated among different components of
the communications media, and proclaiming that “differential taxa-
tion of speakers, even members of the press, does not implicate the
First Amendment unless the tax is directed at, or presents the dan-
ger of suppressing, particular ideas.” 1078
     The general principle that government may not impose a finan-
cial burden based on the content of speech underlay the Court’s in-
validation of New York’s “Son of Sam” law, which provided that a
criminal’s income from publications describing his crime was to be
     1075 Minneapolis Star & Tribune Co. v. Minnesota Comm’r of Revenue, 460 U.S.

575, 585 (1983) (invalidating a Minnesota use tax on the cost of paper and ink prod-
ucts used in a publication, and exempting the first $100,000 of such costs each cal-
endar year; Star & Tribune paid roughly two-thirds of all revenues the state raised
by the tax). The Court seemed less concerned, however, when the affected group
within the press was not so small, upholding application of a gross receipts tax to
cable television services even though other segments of the communications media
were exempted. Leathers v. Medlock, 499 U.S. 439 (1991).
     1076 460 U.S. at 588, 589.
     1077 Arkansas Writers’ Project, Inc. v. Ragland, 481 U.S. 221 (1987).
     1078 Leathers v. Medlock, 499 U.S. 439, 453 (1991) (tax applied to all cable tele-

vision systems within the state, but not to other segments of the communications
media).
