or classrooms in which religion is taught.69 It also struck down a
program subsidizing field trip transportation for children attending
sectarian elementary and secondary schools, because field trips are
inevitably interwoven with the schools’ educational functions.70
     But the Court has not imposed a secular use limitation on aid
programs that benefit sectarian entities only indirectly, i.e., as the
result of decisions by someone other than the government itself. The
initial beneficiaries of the public aid must be determined on the ba-
sis of religiously neutral criteria, and they must have a genuine choice
about whether to use the aid at sectarian or nonsectarian entities.
But, where those standards have been met, the Court has upheld
indirect aid programs even though the sectarian institutions that
ultimately benefit may use the aid for religious purposes. More-
over, the Court has gradually broadened its understanding of what
constitutes a genuine choice so that now most voucher or tax ben-
efit programs benefiting the parents of children attending sectar-
ian schools seem able to pass constitutional muster.
     Thus, the Court initially struck down tax benefit and educa-
tional voucher programs where the initial beneficiaries were lim-
ited to the universe of parents of children attending sectarian schools
and where the aid, as a consequence, was virtually certain to go to
sectarian schools.71 Subsequently, however, it upheld a state pro-
gram that allowed taxpayers to take a deduction from their gross
income for educational expenses, including tuition, incurred in send-
ing their children to public or private schools, because the deduc-
tion was “available for educational expenses incurred by all par-
ents” and the aid became available to sectarian schools “only as a
result of numerous, private choices of individual parents of school-
age children.” 72 It upheld for the same reasons a vocational reha-
bilitation program that made a grant to a blind person for training
at a Bible college for a religious vocation 73 and another program
that provided a sign-language interpreter for a deaf student attend-
ing a sectarian secondary school.74 Most recently, it upheld as con-
stitutional a tuition voucher program made available to the par-
ents of children attending failing public schools, notwithstanding that
most of the private schools at which the vouchers could be used
    69  Committee for Public Educ. & Religious Liberty v. Nyquist, 413 U.S. 756 (1973).
    70  Wolman v. Walter, 433 U.S. 229 (1977).
     71 Committee for Public Educ. & Religious Liberty v. Nyquist, 413 U.S. 756 (1973),

and Sloan v. Lemon, 413 U.S. 825 (1973).
     72 Mueller v. Allen, 463 U.S. 388, 397–399 (1983).
     73 Witters v. Washington Dep’t of Social Services, 474 U.S. 481 (1986). In this

decision the Court also cited as important the factor that the program was not likely
to provide “any significant portion of the aid expended under the . . . program” for
religious education. Id. at 488.
     74 Zobrest v. Catalina Foothills Sch. Dist., 509 U.S. 1 (1993).
