were sectarian in nature.75 Whether the parents had a genuine choice
among religious and secular options in using the vouchers, the Court
said, had to be evaluated on the basis not only of the private schools
where the vouchers could be redeemed but also by examining the
full range of educational options open to them, including various
public school options.
    In applying the primary effect and excessive entanglement tests,
the Court has also, until recently, drawn a distinction between reli-
gious institutions that are pervasively sectarian and those that are
not. Organizations that are permeated by a religious purpose and
character in all that they do have often been held by the Court to
be constitutionally ineligible for direct public aid. Direct aid to religion-
dominated institutions inevitably violates the primary effect test,
the Court has said, because such aid generally cannot be limited to
secular use in such entities and, as a consequence, it has a pri-
mary effect of advancing religion.76 Moreover, any effort to limit the
use of public aid by such entities to secular use inevitably falls afoul
of the excessive entanglement test, according to the Court, because
the risk of diversion of the aid to religious use is so great that it
necessitates an intrusive government monitoring.77 But, direct aid
to religious entities that are not pervasively sectarian, the Court
held, is constitutionally permissible, because the secular functions
of such entities can be distinguished from their religious ones for
purposes of public aid and because the risk of diversion of the aid
to religious use is attenuated and does not require an intrusive gov-
ernment monitoring. As a practical matter, this distinction has had
its most serious consequences for programs providing aid directly
to sectarian elementary and secondary schools, because the Court
has, until recently, presumed such schools to be pervasively sectar-
ian and direct aid, as a consequence, to be severely limited.78 The
Court has presumed to the contrary with respect to religiously af-


    75  Zelman v. Simmons-Harris, 536 U.S. 639 (2002).
    76  See, e.g., Committee for Public Educ. & Religious Liberty v. Nyquist, 413 U.S.
756 (1973) (grants for the maintenance and repair of sectarian school facilities); Meek
v. Pittenger, 421 U.S. 349 (1975) (loan of secular instructional materials and equip-
ment); Grand Rapids School Dist. v. Bal, 473 U.S. 373 (1985) (hiring of parochial
school teachers to provide after-school instruction to the students attending such
schools).
     77 See, e.g., Lemon v. Kurtzman, 403 U.S. 602 (1971) (subsidies for teachers of

secular subjects) and Aguilar v. Felton, 473 U.S. 402 (1985) (provision of remedial
and enrichment services by public school teachers to eligible children attending sec-
tarian elementary and secondary schools on the premises of those schools).
     78 See cases cited in the preceding two footnotes.
