ground, the Court then determined that the city’s inclusion of the
creche in its Christmas display had a legitimate secular purpose in
recognizing “the historical origins of this traditional event long rec-
ognized as a National Holiday,” 225 and that its primary effect was
not to advance religion. The benefit to religion was called “indirect,
remote, and incidental,” and in any event no greater than the ben-
efit resulting from other actions that had been found to be permis-
sible, such as the provision of transportation and textbooks to paro-
chial school students, various assistance to church-supported colleges,
Sunday closing laws, and legislative prayers.226 The Court also re-
versed the lower court’s finding of entanglement based only on “po-
litical divisiveness.” 227
    Allegheny County was also decided by a 5–4 vote, Justice
Blackmun writing the opinion of the Court on the creche issue, and
there being no opinion of the Court on the menorah issue.228 To the
majority, the setting of the creche was distinguishable from that in
Lynch. The creche stood alone on the center staircase of the county
courthouse, bore a sign identifying it as the donation of a Roman
Catholic group, and also had an angel holding a banner proclaim-
ing “Gloria in Exclesis Deo.” Nothing in the display “detract[ed] from
the creche’s religious message,” and the overall effect was to en-
dorse that religious message.229 The menorah, on the other hand,
was placed outside a government building alongside a Christmas
tree and a sign saluting liberty, and bore no religious messages. To
Justice Blackmun, this grouping merely recognized “that both Christ-
mas and Chanukah are part of the same winter-holiday season, which
has attained a secular status”; 230 to concurring Justice O’Connor,
the display’s “message of pluralism” did not endorse religion over
nonreligion even though Chanukah is primarily a religious holiday
and even though the menorah is a religious symbol.231 The dissent-
ers, critical of the endorsement test proposed by Justice O’Connor
and of the three-part Lemon test, would instead distill two prin-
ciples from the Establishment Clause: “government may not coerce

    225  465 U.S. at 680.
    226  465 U.S. at 681–82. Although the extent of benefit to religion was an impor-
tant factor in earlier cases, it was usually balanced against the secular effect of the
same practice rather than the religious effects of other practices.
     227 465 U.S. at 683–84.
     228 Justice O’Connor, who had concurred in Lynch, was the pivotal vote, joining

the Lynch dissenters to form the majority in Allegheny County. Justices Scalia and
Kennedy, not on the Court in 1984, replaced Chief Justice Burger and Justice Pow-
ell in voting to uphold the creche display; Justice Kennedy authored the dissenting
opinion, joined by the other three.
     229 492 U.S. at 598, 600.
     230 492 U.S. at 616.
     231 492 U.S. at 635.
