and the First Amendment did not permit government to determine
that expenditures for advocacy were excessive or wasteful.847
     The government not only may not limit the amount that a can-
didate may spend out of his own resources, but, if a candidate spends
more than a particular amount, the government may not penalize
the candidate by authorizing the candidate’s opponent to receive in-
dividual contributions at higher than the normal limit. In Davis v.
Federal Election Commission, the Court struck down, as lacking a
compelling governmental interest, a federal statute that provided
that, if a “self-financing” candidate for the House of Representa-
tives spends more than a specified amount, then his opponent may
accept more individual contributions than otherwise permitted. The
statute, the Court wrote, imposed “a special and potentially signifi-
cant burden” on a candidate “who robustly exercises [his] First Amend-
ment right.” 848 Citing Buckley, the Court stated that a burden “on
the expenditure of personal funds is not justified by any governmen-
tal interest in eliminating corruption or the perception of corrup-
tion.” This is because “reliance on personal funds reduces the threat
of corruption, and therefore . . . discouraging use of personal funds[
] disserves the anticorruption interest.” 849 Citing Buckley again, the
Court added that the governmental interest in equalizing the finan-
cial resources of candidates does not provide a justification for re-
stricting expenditures, and, in fact, to restrict expenditures “has omi-
nous implications because it would permit Congress to arrogate the
voters’ authority to evaluate the strengths of candidates competing
for office. . . . Different candidates have different strengths. Some
are wealthy; others have wealthy supporters who are willing to make
large contributions. Some are celebrities; some have the benefit of
a well-known family name. Leveling electoral opportunities means
making and implementing judgments about which strengths should
be permitted to the outcome of an election.” 850
    847  424 U.S. at 54–59.
    848  128 S. Ct. 2759, 2771, 2772 (2008). The statute was § 319(a) of the Biparti-
san Campaign Reform Act of 2002 (BCRA), Pub. L. 107–155, 116 Stat. 109, 2 U.S.C.
§ 441a–1(a), which was part of the so-called “Millionaire’s Amendment.”
     849 128 S. Ct. at 2773 (emphasis in original). Justice Stevens, in the part of his

dissenting opinion joined by Justices Souter, Ginsburg, and Breyer, found that the
Millionaire’s Amendment does not cause self-funding candidates “any First Amend-
ment injury whatsoever. The Millionaire’s Amendment quiets no speech at all. On
the contrary, it does no more than assist the opponent of a self-funding candidate in
his attempts to make his voice heard. . . . Enhancing the speech of the millionaire’s
opponent, far from contravening the First Amendment, actually advances its core
principles.” Id. at 2780.
     850 128 S. Ct. at 2773–74. The Court also struck down the disclosure require-

ments in § 319(b) of BCRA because they “were designed to implement the asymmetri-
cal contribution limits provided for in § 319(a), and . . . § 319(a) violates the First
Amendment.” Id. at 2775.
