dition precedent to the imposition of the tax liability, . . . [did] not
prevent it from being a true income tax within the meaning of the
Sixteenth Amendment.” 28 Subsequently, in Helvering v. Northwest
Steel Mills,29 this appraisal of the constitutionality of the undistrib-
uted profits tax was buttressed by the following observation: “It is
true that the surtax is imposed upon the annual income only if it
is not distributed, but this does not serve to make it anything other
than a true tax on income within the meaning of the Sixteenth Amend-
ment. Nor is it true . . . that because there might be an impair-
ment of the capital stock, the tax on the current annual profit would
be the equivalent of a tax upon capital. Whether there was an im-
pairment of the capital stock or not, the tax . . . was imposed on
profits earned during a definite period—a tax year—and therefore
on profits constituting income within the meaning of the Sixteenth
Amendment.” 30
    Likening a cooperative to a corporation, federal courts have also
declared to be taxable income the net earnings of a farmers’ coop-
erative, a portion of which was used to pay dividends on capital
stock without reference to patronage. The argument that such earn-
ings were in reality accumulated savings of its patrons that the co-
operative held as their bailee was rejected as unsound because, “while
those who might be entitled to patronage dividends have . . . an
interest in such earnings, such interest never ripens into an indi-
vidual ownership . . . until and if a patronage dividend be de-
clared.” Had such net earnings been apportioned to all of the pa-
trons during the year, “there might be . . . a more serious question
as to whether such earnings constituted ‘income’ [of the coopera-
tive] within the Amendment.” 31 Similarly, the power of Congress to
tax the income of an unincorporated joint stock association has been
held to be unaffected by the fact that under state law the associa-
tion is not a legal entity and cannot hold title to property, or by the
fact that the shareholders are liable for its debts as partners.32

    28 Helvering v. National Grocery Co., 304 U.S. 282, 288–89 (1938). In Helvering

v. Mitchell, 303 U.S. 391 (1938), the defendant contended the collection of fifty per
cent of any deficiency in addition to the deficiency alleged to have resulted from a
fraudulent intent to evade the income tax amounted to the imposition of a criminal
penalty. The Court, however, described the additional sum as a civil and not a crimi-
nal sanction, and one which could be constitutionally employed to safeguard the gov-
ernment against loss of revenue. In contrast, the exaction upheld in Helvering v.
National Grocery Co., though conceded to possess the attributes of a civil sanction,
was declared to be sustainable as a tax.
    29 311 U.S. 46 (1940). See also Crane-Johnson Co. v. Helvering, 311 U.S. 54 (1940).
    30 311 U.S. at 53.
    31 Farmers Union Co-op v. Commissioner, 90 F.2d 488, 491, 492 (8th Cir. 1937).
    32 Burk-Waggoner Ass’n v. Hopkins, 269 U.S. 110 (1925).
