     Corporate Dividends: When Taxable.—Rendered in confor-
mity with the belief that all income “in the ordinary sense of the
word” became taxable under the Sixteenth Amendment, the earli-
est decisions of the Court on the taxability of corporate dividends
occasioned little comment. Emphasizing that in all such cases the
stockholder is to be viewed as “a different entity from the corpora-
tion,” the Court in Lynch v. Hornby,16 held that a cash dividend
equal to 24 percent of the par value of the outstanding stock and
made possible largely by the conversion into money of assets earned
prior to the adoption of the Amendment, was income taxable to the
stockholder for the year in which he received it, notwithstanding
that such an extraordinary payment might appear “to be a mere
realization in possession of an inchoate and contingent interest . . .
[of] the stockholder . . . in a surplus of corporate assets previously
existing.” In Peabody v. Eisner,17 decided on the same day and deemed
to have been controlled by the preceding case, the Court ruled that
a dividend paid in the stock of another corporation, although repre-
senting earnings that had accrued before ratification of the Amend-
ment, was also taxable to the shareholder as income. The dividend
was likened to a distribution in specie.
     Two years later, the Court decided Eisner v. Macomber,18 and
the controversy that that decision precipitated still endures. Depart-
ing from the interpretation placed upon the Sixteenth Amendment
in the earlier cases, i.e., that the purpose of the Amendment was to
correct the “error” committed in Pollock and to restore income taxa-
tion to “the category of indirect taxation to which it inherently be-
longed,” 19 Justice Pitney, speaking for the Court in Eisner, indi-
cated that the Sixteenth Amendment “did not extend the taxing power
to new subjects, but merely removed the necessity which otherwise
might exist for an apportionment among the States of taxes laid on
income.” 20 The decision gave the term “income” a restrictive mean-
ing.
     16 247 U.S. 339, 344 (1918). On the other hand, in Lynch v. Turrish, 247 U.S.

221 (1918), the single and final dividend distributed upon liquidation of the entire
assets of a corporation, although equaling twice the par value of the capital stock,
was declared to represent only the intrinsic value of the latter earned prior to the
effective date of the Amendment, and hence was not taxable as income to the share-
holder in the year in which actually received. Similarly, in Southern Pacific Co. v.
Lowe, 247 U.S. 330 (1918), dividends paid out of surplus accumulated before the
effective date of the Amendment by a railway company whose entire capital stock
was owned by another railway company and whose physical assets were leased to
and used by the latter was declared to be a nontaxable bookkeeping transaction be-
tween virtually identical corporations.
     17 247 U.S. 347 (1918).
     18 252 U.S. 189 (1920).
     19 Stanton v. Baltic Mining Co., 240 U.S. 103, 112 (1916).
     20 252 U.S. at 206.
