     Specifically, the Court held that a stock dividend was capital
when received by a stockholder of the issuing corporation and did
not become taxable as “income” until sold or converted, and then
only to the extent that a gain was realized upon the proportion of
the original investment that such stock represented. A stock divi-
dend, Justice Pitney maintained, “[f]ar from being a realization of
profits of the stockholder, . . . tends rather to postpone such real-
ization, in that the fund represented by the new stock has been trans-
ferred from surplus to capital, and no longer is available for actual
distribution. . . . We are clear that not only does a stock dividend
really take nothing from the property of the corporation and add
nothing to that of the shareholder, but that the antecedent accumu-
lation of profits evidenced thereby, while indicating that the share-
holder is richer because of an increase of his capital, at the same
time shows [that] he has not realized or received any income in the
transaction.” 21 But conceding that a stock dividend represented a
gain, the Justice concluded that the only gain taxable as “income”
under the Amendment was “a gain, a profit, something of exchange-
able value proceeding from the property, severed from the capital
however invested or employed, and coming in, being ‘derived,’ that
is, received or drawn by the recipient (the taxpayer) for his sepa-
rate use, benefit and disposal;—that is income derived from prop-
erty. Nothing else answers the description,” including “a gain accru-
ing to capital, not a growth or increment of value in the investment.” 22
     Although the Court has not overturned the principle it as-
serted in Eisner v. Macomber,23 it has significantly narrowed its ap-
plication. The Court treated as taxable income new stock issued in
connection with a corporate reorganization designed to move the place
of incorporation. The fact that a comparison of the market value of
the shares in the older corporation immediately before, with the ag-
gregate market value of those shares plus the dividend shares im-
mediately after, the dividend showed that the stockholders experi-
enced no increase in aggregate wealth was declared not to be a proper
    21 252 U.S. at 211, 212.
    22 252 U.S. at 207. This decision has been severely criticized, chiefly on the ground
that gains accruing to capital over a period of years are not income and are not
transformed into income by being dissevered from capital through sale or conver-
sion. Critics have also experienced difficulty in understanding how a tax on income
that has been severed from capital can continue to be labeled a “direct” tax on the
capital from which the severance has thus been made. Finally, the contention has
been made that, in stressing the separate identities of a corporation and its stock-
holders, the Court overlooked the fact that when a surplus has been accumulated,
the stockholders are thereby enriched, and that a stock dividend may therefore be
appropriately viewed simply as a device whereby the corporation reinvests money
earned in their behalf. See also Merchants’ L. & T. Co. v. Smietanka, 255 U.S. 509
(1921).
    23 Reconsideration was refused in Helvering v. Griffiths, 318 U.S. 371 (1943).
