out apportionment amongst the states.” 40 Consistent with this hold-
ing, the Court has also ruled that, when an apartment house was
acquired by bequest subject to an unassumed mortgage, and sev-
eral years later was sold for a price slightly in excess of the mort-
gage, the basis for determining the gain from that sale was the dif-
ference between the selling price, undiminished by the amount of
the mortgage, and the value of the property at the time of the ac-
quisition, less deductions for depreciation during the years the build-
ing was held by the taxpayer. The latter’s contention that the Rev-
enue Act, as thus applied, taxed something that was not revenue,
was declared to be unfounded.41
    As against the argument of a donee that a gift of stock became
a capital asset when received and that therefore, when disposed of,
no part of that value could be treated as taxable income to said
donee, the Court has declared that it was within the power of Con-
gress to require a donee of stock, who sells it at a profit, to pay
income tax on the difference between the selling price and the value
when the donor acquired it.42 Moreover, “receipt in cash or prop-
erty . . . not [being] the only characteristic of realization of income
to a taxpayer on the cash receipt basis,” it follows that one who is
normally taxable only on the receipt of interest payments cannot
escape taxation thereon by giving away his right to such income in
advance of payment. When “the taxpayer does not receive payment
of income in money or property[,] realization may occur when the
last step is taken by which he obtains the fruition of the economic
gain which has already accrued to him.” Hence an owner of bonds,
reporting on the cash receipts basis, who clipped interest coupons
therefrom before their due date and gave them to his son, was held
to have realized taxable income in the amount of said coupons, not-
withstanding that his son had collected them upon maturity later
in the year.43
    40   309 U.S. at 469, 468.
    41   Crane v. Commissioner, 331 U.S. 1, 15–16 (1947).
      42 The donor could not, “by mere gift, enable another to hold this stock free from

. . . [the] right . . . [of] the sovereign to take part of any increase in its value when
separated through sale or conversion and reduced to possession.” Taft v. Bowers,
278 U.S. 470, 482, 484 (1929). However, when a husband, as part of a divorce settle-
ment, transfers his own corporate stock to his wife, he is deemed to have exchanged
the stock for the release of his wife’s inchoate, marital rights, the value of which
are presumed to be equal to the current, market value of the stock, and, accord-
ingly, he incurs a taxable gain measured by the difference between the initial pur-
chase price of the stock and said market value upon transfer. United States v. Da-
vis, 370 U.S. 65 (1962).
      43 Helvering v. Horst, 311 U.S. 112, 115 (1940). The Court was also called upon

to resolve questions as to whether gains, realized after 1913, on transactions con-
summated prior to ratification of the Sixteenth Amendment are taxable, and if so,
how such tax is to be determined. The Court’s answer generally has been that if the
