test for determining whether taxable income had been received by
these stockholders.24 The Court viewed the shareholders as essen-
tially exchanging a stock in the old corporation for stock in the new
corporation. By contrast, the Court held that no taxable income re-
sulted from the mere receipt by a stockholder of rights to subscribe
for shares in a new issue of capital stock, the intrinsic value of which
was assumed to be in excess of the issuing price. The right to sub-
scribe was declared to be analogous to a stock dividend, and “only
so much of the proceeds obtained upon the sale of such rights as
represents a realized profit over cost” to the stockholders was deemed
to be taxable income.25 Similarly, on grounds of consistency with
Eisner v. Macomber, the Court has ruled that a dividend in com-
mon stock paid to holders of preferred stock,26 and a dividend in
preferred stock paid to holders of common stock,27 because they gave
the stockholders an interest different from that represented by their
prior holdings, constituted income taxable under the Sixteenth Amend-
ment.
    Corporate Earnings: When Taxable.—On at least two occa-
sions the Court has rejected as untenable the contention that a tax
on undistributed corporate profits is essentially a penalty rather than
a tax or that it is a direct tax on capital and hence is not exempt
from the requirement of apportionment. Because the exaction was
permissible as a tax, its validity was held not to be impaired by its
penal objective, which was “to force corporations to distribute earn-
ings in order to create a basis for taxation against the stockhold-
ers.” As to the added contention that, because liability was as-
sessed upon a mere purpose to evade imposition of surtaxes against
stockholders, the tax was a direct tax on a state of mind, the Court
replied that while “the existence of the defined purpose was a con-
     24 United States v. Phellis, 257 U.S. 156 (1921); Rockefeller v. United States,

257 U.S. 176 (1921). See also Cullinan v. Walker, 262 U.S. 134 (1923). In Marr v.
United States, 268 U.S. 536 (1925), the Court held that the increased market value
of stock issued by a new corporation in exchange for stock of an older corporation,
the assets of which it was organized to absorb, was subject to taxation as income to
the holder, notwithstanding that the income represented profits of the older corpora-
tion and that the capital remained invested in the same general enterprise. The Court
likened Weiss v. Stearn, 265 U.S. 242 (1924), to Eisner v. Macomber, and distin-
guished it from the aforementioned cases on the ground of preservation of corporate
identity. Although the “new corporation had . . . been organized to take over the
assets and business of the old . . . [,] the corporate identity was deemed to have
been substantially maintained because the new corporation was organized under the
laws of the same State with presumably the same powers as the old. There was
also no change in the character of the securities issued. By reason of these facts,
the proportional interest of the stockholder after the distribution of the new securi-
ties was deemed to be exactly the same . . . .” Marr, 268 U.S. at 541.
     25 Miles v. Safe Deposit Co., 259 U.S. 247 (1922).
     26 Koshland v. Helvering, 298 U.S. 441 (1936).
     27 Helvering v. Gowran, 302 U.S. 238 (1937).
